Far west and downtown (and, incidentally, largely built on land leased from the City of New York) Battery Park City is like its own little village on the other side of the West Side Highway. “But even if you never left the area, you’d have enough kid-friendly things to keep you busy, from sandboxes and slides to little league games and sailing lessons. Moreover, a lot of the buildings target families with family-sized apartments and kid-focused amenities like playrooms and pools,” says Doneliza Joaquin, Localize.city lead urban planner. Thanks to its relative youth, the neighborhood is also where you’ll find a high concentration of LEED-certified buildings in the city.

Conveniences for families include numerous parks and green spaces; grassy fields can be found in Rockefeller Park, and Teardrop Park is a popular, secluded spot with a slide built into a hill. Playgrounds can be found throughout the neighborhood, and courts for playing basketball to volleyball and baseball, and ping pong tables are here as well. Athletic Center Asphalt Green has an outpost here, and Stuyvesant High School, located within Battery Park City, has a community pool and center. The area’s riverside esplanade runs the length of Battery Park City and provides great views of the Hudson, the Statue of Liberty, and beyond.

Brookfield Place is a high-end mall with shops, a curated food court, restaurants, an ice rink, and a lively programming lineup of art installations, performances and events—many of which cater to families. More retail is available a bit east, including Whole Foods, Target, Bed Bath & Beyond, and Westfield World Trade Center Mall in The Oculus. Battery Park City also has its own Regal Battery Park multiplex and Shake Shack. 

Battery Park’s Seaglass Carousel (a merry-go-round of spinning, illuminated fish) is a big draw for both locals and tourists alike, and the addition of a “PlayScape” of treehouse-style play spaces, a puppet theater and a rock climbing wall  to the park are apparently in the works. 

Also a part of Manhattan’s robust and sprawling District 2, Battery Park is served by several strong public schools, including P.S. 89, P.S. 276, P.S. 343, and Tribeca’s P.S. 234. 

Neighborhood boundaries: Battery Park City is a slice of reclaimed land in Manhattan between the Hudson River and West Street, aka West Side Highway. The neighborhood runs from Chambers Street in the north to Battery Place and Little West Street in the south.

Transportation: There are no subway stations in the Battery Park City neighborhood. Train access is in the Financial District and Notaro says in some cases you have to walk a quarter of a mile to the nearest subway.

The FDR and Westside Highway make it accessible if you drive but also explain why parking and placard abuse is an even more pressing issue for this area than it is for neighboring Tribeca, according to Notaro. The lack of subways means the Downtown Connection shuttles are a boon for residents.

Real Estate: Battery Park City is slightly more affordable than Tribeca with a median sales price for a three bedroom of $3,125,000. The median rent for a three bedroom is $11,000 and for a two bedroom, $6,950.

As a planned city, Battery Park City’s housing stock, in general, have less character than those in Tribeca. The properties are beautiful, Mills says, though they “feel more pragmatic and cookie cutter than in neighboring Tribeca.” In the north, there are mainly large brick apartment blocks. The southern section contains complexes like the waterfront residential apartment building, the Gateway Plaza, which was completed in 1983. The Soliare, a LEED-certified building, and the country’s first green residential complex, opened in 2002.

One of the neighborhood’s premier condo buildings is 225 Rector Place, which was redeveloped in 2012. “It’s a very nice, very standard, straightforward, luxury product, with standard floor plans, beautiful views of the Hudson River and Statue of Liberty, but not as much personality as units in Tribeca,” Mills says.

Living: Residents tell Brick living in Battery Park City is like living in the suburbs while in the city.

“The really wonderful thing about the area is that you’re in Manhattan but your kids can ride their bikes down the promenade,” one resident told us. One third of the area is designated parkland and there’s a sense that it’s an island on an island. “West Street cuts us off from Manhattan,” Notaro says.

“I’ve always felt it feels like a really nice college campus, because it’s very clean, there’s a sense of uniformity in terms of the architecture and the urban planning,” Mills says.


Access to the waterfront in Battery Park City makes it feel separate from Manhattan—peaceful even.  Jesus M. via Yelp
A typical Battery Park City buyer, Mills says, is more committed to the practical than the artistic.

“It’s someone who likes the convenience of the area, who likes to walk to their office in the Financial District, someone who likes to run along the highway but it not so attached to the heart and soul and grittiness of New York City,” he says. The Financial District is just across the West Street Highway and the area has attracted other banking institutions like Goldman Sachs, which is headquartered in the northern part of Battery Park City at 200 West Street. 

The biggest changes have come to Battery Park City since 9/11. Notaro says the rebuilding and development means the area is now on the map as a destination within Manhattan.

“The development of Brookfield Place brought major improvements,” he says. Other residents echo that assessment, saying it has great dining options and always has something going on for the kids. Even so, a major issue for the area is resiliency. Notaro says, "We are vulnerable because our community is surrounded on three sides by water and much of the waterfront is landfill and that’s a pressing area of concern for us."

Much of the Community Board's discussions are about keeping up with the area's growth.

"The population of lower Manhattan has doubled in 10 years, and that’s putting a put a lot of pressure on services like sanitation, public safety, and school seats," says Notaro. 

Like Tribeca, Battery Park City is quiet on the weekends. If the vibe in Tribeca is chic casual, Battery Park City is more athletic casual. Apparently, that extends to parenting style as well. Residents tell Brick parents are a little bit more laid back. “It still has a good balance of parents wanting the best for their kids but not making it all about them,” says one resident.

Eating and dining: While Tribeca’s dining scene is upscale casual, Battery Park City is a little more formal. Much of the dining happens around Brookfield Place—think Michelin-starred French cuisine at L'Appart. For more casual eats there's Tartinery Hudson Eats. 

Area gems: Residents of Tribeca and Battery Park City share facilities like Asphalt Green and the Manhattan Community Center that caters to both neighborhoods.

The Regal Entertainment movie theater is very accessible and rarely crowded. There’s also Rockefeller Park, which is popular with residents. Other gems include Super Duper Tennis, the farmers' market by Bowling Green station which is “small but great,” according to one resident, and the area by the Staten Island Ferry, which is a good place to stroll and take in the rotation of interesting public art by Pier A.

Local celebrities: The waterfront Riverhouse apartment complex is home to supermodel Tyra Banks, Leonardo DiCaprio, Cobie Smulders and her “Hamilton” actor-husband, Taran Killam, as well as director Oliver Stone.

wealthiest New Yorkers live? It’s not hard to guess the neighborhoods with the highest concentration of super-duper-rich residents, but the Census Bureau's American Community Survey offers concrete data.
So with that in mind, what are the richest neighborhoods in New York City? If you were going to guess that most of them are in Manhattan, you would be correct—here are the top 10

History of Battery Park City
Battery Park City sits on the southwest side of downtown Manhattan and is bordered by the Hudson River to the west and the Financial District to the east. Careful planning in the 1970s transformed this area into the residential community it is today.

During the 1990s, there was a boom of development as schools, public parks, residential buildings, and commercial buildings filled up Battery Park City.

Today, this once vacant land has become an oasis in downtown Manhattan filled with green space.

The Vibe of Battery Park City


Battery Park City has peaceful parks, clean streets, and waterfront views. The neighborhood has a calm, clean, and well-maintained feel. Residential buildings in Battery Park City are mostly upscale high-rise condos with plenty of amenities.

The peaceful parks, waterfront view, and laid-back vibe of the neighborhood make Battery Park City the perfect escape from the crowds of Manhattan.

Unique Features of Battery Park City
The neighborhood has a tight-knit community that hosts many events throughout the year. Charity walks, dance festivals, nature tours, outdoor movie nights, and concerts are commonplace here.

Because of this, Battery Park City residents are fairly well-connected and you’ll often see them bumping into a friend or neighbor while strolling down the street.

In Battery Park City, you can enjoy a quiet community in the heart of downtown Manhattan.

Things To Do in Battery Park City


There is plenty to do around the neighborhood, especially if you are looking for something slower-paced and relaxing. Here are just a few of our favorite things to do in Battery Park City:

The Esplanade: This picturesque path runs the length of Battery Park City and offers views of the Statue of Liberty, beautiful gardens, and public art installations.
Brookfield Place: A beautiful luxury complex with high-end shopping, food, and wellness amenities makes for the perfect destination for people of all ages.
Pier A: First opened in 1886, this historic pier is now a 28,000 square-foot dining destination right on the Hudson River. We suggest dining at sunset for some unbelievable sights!
Top Food Choices in Battery Park City
Blue Smoke: Craving some comfort food? Barbecue is served family-style at this lively Southern-inspired restaurant.
BlackTail Bar: Housed in Pier A, this Cuban seafood bar is popular with both locals and New Yorkers from around the city.
El Vez: This casual Mexican restaurant stands out with its welcoming atmosphere, classic menu, and an expansive list of mezcals and tequilas.
Top Three Things We Love About Battery Park City


1. River Views: You can enjoy unique views of the Hudson River, Statue of Liberty, and New Jersey from the comfort of your neighborhood parks.

2. Location: Only moments away from the Financial District and the rest of Lower Manhattan, Battery Park City is in an optimal location.

3. Luxury: Residents in Battery Park City compare the neighborhood to a luxury resort because of its well-maintained public spaces and high-end amenities.