In both Chinatown and Little Italy, much of the housing consists of historic tenement buildings. But many of these apartments have been renovated in recent years, so they are a far cry from the shared, cramped quarters they once were. The neighborhood's newest residents favor large loft apartments converted from factory floors and warehouses. And, mixed in with the historic buildings, there is also some new construction, including luxury condos and doorman buildings.

As evidenced by the shiny new buildings, Chinatown and Little Italy are becoming a trendy area to live among young professionals who want to be near the action of downtown. Both ethnic neighborhoods have been undergoing change for a while, but still have very distinct vibes that set them apart from their beyond-hip neighbors, the Lower East Side and SoHo.

Chinatown, on the other hand, is a sprawling neighborhood that is marked by Chinese and Southeast Asian businesses in a large radius around its official perimeters. It's both a home and a destination for much of the city's Asian population, as it's packed with grocery stores, restaurants, cultural organizations, and other businesses useful to the Chinese American community.

On Canal Street and Mott Street, many storefronts cater to tourists and other non-Chinatown-residents. These arteries are often packed with crowds on the weekends and for events like Lunar New Year celebrations. But beyond the obvious dim sum restaurants and trinket shops, the neighborhood has quite a lot of other activity going on.

Children and the elderly gather in parks to play, dance, and sing; the intellectually curious check out the newly redesigned Museum of Chinese in America; young people look for fun at trendy bars or bubble tea shops; foodies descend upon noodle and dumpling hotspots; and artsy types throw loft parties.

Chinatown is one of the most visited neighborhoods in all of New York City. If you love crowds, you’ll definitely love Chinatown! It’s not a ideal place to live due to the many street markets and hidden late night bars, but the rent can be affordable. It has great ethnic restaurants that are not only Chinese, including Vietnamese restaurants where you can get fish or a large bowl of noodle soup. Apart from eating and shopping, Chinatown is also the residence of a couple of galleries and the Museum of Chinese.

If you're looking for a quiet neighborhood with little street congestion, Chinatown is not your place!

Home to the highest concentration of Chinese people in the Western Hemisphere, this area of Lower Manhattan is an immersive cultural experience.

The neighborhood borders the Lower East Side to the east, Little Italy to the north, Tribeca to the West and Civic Center to the south.

Residents range from newcomers looking for affordable downtown living to longtime residents who have been there for generations.

Although tourists and vendors pack the busy sidewalks, it has an overall community-driven feel thanks to the longtime residents.

Although the area is dominated by older walk-up buildings, new condo developments have popped up in recent years.

The majority of Chinatown's real estate consists of walk-ups, though some condos have popped up in recent years near the neighborhood's borders.

The walk-ups are typically located above restaurants and shops and have limited space available.

They are owned by mom and pop landlords, not major developers, so those looking to move to the area will not get the frills and amenities of a luxury building.

Pro-tip: Walk-up apartments located on higher floors tend to rent for a little less than those on lower floors.

The most affordable area to look is between the Manhattan and Brooklyn Bridge, closer to the water.

The costs go up on streets closer to the touristy areas (Delancey St and Mott and Mulberry St).

Although the narrow streets of Chinatown are great for wandering, there is also a number of public transit options for residents.

Its unique location allows residents to commute to other areas of the city with ease.

Multiple subways lines converge around Canal Street.


The neighborhood is also convenient for Brooklyn-working residents since the Manhattan Bridge connects Chinatown to Downtown Brooklyn.

There are multiple bike lanes in the Chinatown neighborhood. Many bikers prefer to cruise along the East River, which runs parallel to FDR Drive.

There is a pedestrian walkway and bike path leading to that area. The city has recently installed some bicycle and pedestrian improvements.

There are also two Citibike stations in the neighborhood. They can be found at these two locations:

Division St and Bowery
Forsyth St and Canal St.

There is no shortage of amazing noodle shops in this neighborhood, but one that has locals hooked is Bassanova Ramen, This New York Times acclaimed basement noodle den is hard to spot unless you know what you're looking for.

Other famous spots in Chinatown include Joe's Shanghai for dumplings, Dim Sum Go Go for a large selection of dim sum, and Mission Chinese Food for modern Chinese food.

Chinatown is not only good for noodles and dim sum. It houses some of the best dessert cafe's and tea houses in the city!

For dessert, try Chinatown Ice Cream Factory for homemade scoops topped with Asian candies!

Sweet Moment serves up some of the most funky and creatively delicious treats in all of NYC.

Silk Road Cafe serves up some of the best coffees, teas and pastry treats in the area.

If you're a cat lover, head over to Meow Parlour and enjoy a cup of joe with some (adoptable) furry friends.

Chinatown is huge on maintaining its core identity and preserving tradition.

For this reason, one of the most popular destinations for residents and tourists is the Museum of Chinese in America.

Most cultural institutions like museums and art galleries are located more toward the Lower East Side.

Mahayana Temple Buddhist Association is NYC's largest Buddhist temple.

If you're looking to have the most exciting (and possibly overwhelming) shopping experience of your life, Canal Street is the street.

They have it all. But get ready to haggle vendors for your favorite knock-off designer purse or accessory.

Nightlife is slow and steady in Chinatown and locals usually head to Little Italy, Soho or Tribeca if they are looking for a dancing venue or trendy hangout.

Locals do however frequent 169 Bar if they are looking for a cheap $3 beer or relaxed vibes with DJ who spin new wave.

