Sorry to say but it’s a very sketchy area, especially 116th between 2nd Ave and Park. High crime area, especially around Lex. Crime stats show it’s a hotspot for knife crime. Subways in that area are super sketchy, too, especially the 6 line. Seriously, just avoid the whole area. You can find similarly priced apartments in West and South Harlem, which won’t add much to your commute. I recommend looking between 112th and 130th, between Frederick Douglass and 5th. Much nicer area, better amenities and shops, more greenery, more transport options, and much safer. With respect to people who live in East Harlem, it’s one of the worst Manhattan neighborhoods in terms of livability and quality of life (IMO)

Ehhh, the user you're replying to isn't wrong about the 6, but I'd take it with a grain of salt that his entire post history is picking fights and calling everybody SJW snowflakes. There are lots of great restaurants here, beautiful parks in 3 directions, murals and gardens everywhere you turn. It's not perfect, but we're very happy with the area, and have met many wonderful people who make it a neighborhood.

I lived around there and hated it. Areas where there’s high unemployment mean lots of men standing around at all hours, nothing to do. I was harassed a lot, followed, etc and it’s just generally not pleasant. Idk.

It's still a little sketchy. It has "improved" in the past few years, and there are a lot of cheap renovated apartments there now since it's still not a "nice" area. I would personally try to live slightly closer to 103rd/96th if you can find something there in your budget.

First off, it's busy. Especially that intersection. Up until 8pm or so and everything quiets down. But before then you'll have a bunch of dudes hanging around out front of the corners and other stores. There's especially a lot of people on the east side of 116th going to 117th st where there are a few stores and food spots.

And yeah, it will be sketchy for a woman. Dudes will be hollerin' at you constantly. I'm a big guy all around and never had any issues.

I haven't been back for two years and I especially don't know how it is right now with the virus. Before I left, there were two grocery stores within a block of each other, plenty of places to eat, my favorite bakery, and pretty much everything you need will be either right there or within a few blocks.

Aside from that, the 6 stop is right there and while it may show up late a few minutes here and there, it's not like some other lines.

Commonly known as “El Barrio,” East Harlem has a strong Latin, Caribbean and African American presence. That influence is reflected in the neighborhood’s cultural institutions, shops and restaurants. Numerous parks and works of public art add to the allure. 
Cocktails, murals, cuchifritos and Latin jazz.
A cache of museums and arts centers, and the chance to pursue, against the odds, a table at Rao’s. (Also consider Patsy’s Pizzeria or Ricardo Steakhouse.)

East Harlem aka El Barrio or Spanish Harlem is a fabulous neighborhood. Geographically, East Harlem is the area north of 96th Street up to about 135th Street and from Fifth Avenue east to the East and Harlem Rivers. Once upon a time East Harlem was predominantly Italian. It was in effect the first Little Italy in NYC and a number of the Italian-American mafia had operations in East Harlem. Beginning in about the 1920s there was a large migration of Puerto Ricans to the neighborhood. 

Puerto Ricans that live in New York City are called Nuyoricans. East Harlem is more than 50% Latino or Hispanic and the majority are Puerto Ricans followed by Mexicans and a number of other South and Central Americans. There's amazing street art and authentic cuisine and it's a great neighborhood for street photography. Oh the people are very friendly as well. The Main Street in East Harlem is 116th Street with many little independent shops and street vendors. 

People who were born or lived in East Harlem include Al Pacino, Tupac Shakur, Tito Puente, Celia Cruz, Marc Anthony, Bobby Darin, Fiorello Laguardia (the airport is named after him), Burt Lancaster, Alice Neel, Ronnie Spector and many more. 