Neighborhoody feel, Still not fully gentrified, so it feels less sterile than other manhattan neighborhoods to me, Great restaurants with many types of cuisines, Cool shopping, Thriving bar scene, including some of the best cocktail bars in the city, General lack of tourists

Bad subway access (but served by buses and the L train), Overpriced, old housing. Not many affordable buildings with amenities, Not much green space, except some small community gardens and Tompkins Sq Park, Loud

Nightlife is awesome. It's a major hotspot for not only shopping, but if you want to meet friends it's a popular place. Rarely had to travel far to go out for the night, which is good because unless you're near fourteenth street the only train around is the F, which is annoying. It's also expensive as hell, I ended up moving because I realized I was paying so much in rent I couldn't even enjoy the nightlife around me.

History of the East Village
Today’s East Village stretches from the East River to Third Avenue (east to west) and from East Houston Street to 14th Street (south to north). In the early 17th century, most of the area was a farm owned by Dutch Governor Peter Stuyvesant. However, by the early 19th century, it had become part of the growing city and was home to many immigrants from Europe.

After World War II, the tenement apartments and vibrant international community began to attract students, political activists, artists, and musicians.

The neighborhood became the epicenter of counterculture in New York City, home to artists like Allen Ginsberg and Andy Warhol, and was an incubator for avant-garde theater and the New York punk scene.

The past of the East Village shaped what the community is today – an exciting neighborhood with a lively nightlife that is the definition of downtown living.

New developments in the East Village are relatively rare, but many older buildings are being remodeled to offer contemporary conveniences and polish. This trend has increased demand, but the East Village is still an affordable alternative to pricey neighboring areas.

If you’re looking for value, there are many pre-war walkups in the East Village to consider, especially as you search farther east.

Convenient access to the subway, ferries, and buses makes getting in and out of the neighborhood easy and affordable. It’s also bike-friendly, with plenty of Citi Bike stations and dedicated bike lanes.

During the day, the East Village may seem like just a quiet neighborhood. However, once the sun sets and the stars come out, the area becomes packed because of the abundance of bars and restaurants to explore.

Although the neighborhood’s rough edges have been somewhat smoothed as time progressed, the birthplace of the American punk scene still has character. You can stroll down the street and find an old-school dive bar or avant-garde performance art in a low-key venue.

Whether you’re looking to explore St. Mark’s Place, have a “wee dram” in a whiskey bar, or visit Tompkins Square Park, there’s always something to do in this downtown Manhattan neighborhood. Here are some of our favorite East Village activities:

Shop at Vintage Vendors: The side streets in the East Village are dotted with curated vintage clothing and jewelry boutiques.
Get Active: Tompkins Square Park draws families, tourists, pet lovers, and athletes to its tree-shaded benches, chess tables, and basketball courts. The park also frequently hosts free musical concerts and other events.
Hit the Bars: Its variety of watering holes makes the East Village a top NYC nightlife destination. If you’re looking for a spot with a little more atmosphere and tasty brews, check out the historic McSorley’s Old Ale House!
Top Food Choices in the East Village
The East Village is one of New York’s most diverse dining neighborhoods. Cheap options are available for a quick bite as well as destination restaurants where you can spend the evening and a week’s paycheck. No matter which option you prefer, these restaurants should definitely be on your list:

Veselka: One of the most popular restaurants in the East Village, this traditional Ukrainian café is a New York icon, serving affordable comfort food since 1954.
Ippudo NY: This East Village establishment has been giving New Yorkers their ramen and pork bun fix since 2008.
Taqueria St. Mark’s Place: The dive-bar appearance of this busy taco joint is belied by the tasty margaritas and juicy barbacoa “street style” tacos available once you step inside.
Top Three Things We Love About the East Village

1. The endless creative energy makes living in the East Village the complete New York experience.

2. Bars, clubs, and delicious food keep the avenues hopping, with plenty of parks and side streets to explore.

3. Public transportation in the East Village is affordable and easy to find.

The East Village has something that many New York City neighborhoods do not: a very distinctive personality. With slightly rough edges and some of the city's finest bars and restaurants, the East Village may not be quite as polished as its West Village and Greenwich Village neighbors, but it has just as much charm.

In the the sections below, you'll get a glimpse into life in the East Village. But before you go anywhere, make sure you scroll through the photos in the gallery below. Nothing can tell the story of a neighborhood as well as a few good photos. 

A little off the beaten path, the East Village has long attracted artists, students, skateboarders, and hippies, and was a major center for the punk rock scene and the Nuyorican (New York Puerto Rican) literary movement. It was also famously the backdrop for the story of the group of young struggling artists portrayed in the musical Rent. More recently, though, the East Village has become one of the trendiest neighborhoods in Manhattan, with a growing concentration of hip boutiques, bars, and serious foodie destinations.

As a longtime hub for counterculture, the East Village still carries that alternative vibe. The neighborhood boasts a high concentration of community gardens, street art, second-hand stores, and natural food stores. Two of its defining cultural institutions are the Bowery Poetry Club and the Nuyorican Poets Cafe, both of which host poetry slams and similar events; another is Lucky Cheng's, a restaurant featuring drag shows.

Nearby NYU and Cooper Union, as well as the punk rock movement and the more recent outcropping of trendy nightlife and shopping, make the East Village's population skew to the younger side. On any given day or night in the neighborhood, you might see bike messengers racing on fixies in Tompkins Square Park; young couples bringing their pets to the dog run; crowds of foodies waiting for ramen, arepas, or vegetarian food at the latest hotspot; or bar-hopping college students.

Needless to say, the East Village is defined by its eclectic feel. From gritty to trendy, historic to brand new, the neighborhood has it all, but has managed to keep a pretty indie atmosphere. It's culturally diverse, too, with a significant Puerto Rican population (as evidenced by street signs and murals throughout the area) and a Ukrainian pocket (near the Ukrainian Museum).

While the western part of the neighborhood - due to its proximity to the subways and college campuses - is often hopping with activity, the eastern section (eastern Alphabet City to East River Park) is considerably quieter and more residential. Throughout the neighborhood, the majority of housing consists of walk-up apartment buildings accented by those quintessential New York fire escapes, but some new high-rise condos are making an appearance as well. 