Living in the Financial District is a truly unique, exciting experience. Home to the New York Stock Exchange, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and the headquarters of numerous financial institutions, the Financial District spills prestige. Today, modern luxury buildings are providing NYC residents the opportunity to live in one of the most economically vital areas in the world.

Cobblestone streets guide huge influxes of office workers and tourists to landmarks and museums around the neighborhood. There is easy access to the subways, and the neighborhood is easily walkable. After working hours, the neighborhood quiets down, but you can still find a number of excellent restaurants and nightlife spots. There are also numberable shopping options thanks to places like The Westfield World Trade Center, a spacious mall with a wide range of both high-end and mid-range stores.

Easy access to transportation has brought a new wave of condo buyers into the Financial District, known to its residents as “FiDi.” Recent conversions of office buildings in the Financial District have generated lofts and apartments with high ceilings and modern amenities such as gyms, concierges, and advanced computer systems. Rental buildings have modern lounges for socializing and roof decks that go on and on, with views to match. The new luxury high-rises have joined such classic Financial District Co-Ops as 3 Hanover Square, a conversion of the former Cotton Exchange.

Sleek skyscrapers hurtle up towards the stratosphere from cobblestone streets in the Financial District. This fast-paced section of Lower Manhattan is home to one of the world’s most iconic skylines. It bustles during the day as the heart of the nation’s financial markets, yet it offers a residential sense of calm in the evenings. Historic Stone Street’s restaurants buzz with happy hour deals and power lunches, and the waterfront offers an ever-changing calendar of cultural events. The Charging Bull statue stands proudly in front of Bowling Green, embodying the Financial District’s powerful legacy.

Working professionals are understandably drawn to the Financial District, but its modern condos and convenient public transportation make it attractive to a wide spectrum of residents. Nearly every subway line is accessible at the Wall Street and Fulton Street stations. Ferries to Governors Island and Staten Island are also based here for those commuting by sea. Residents enjoy sweeping views of the Upper New York Bay, and abundant recreation at Battery Park and the South Street Seaport. Towering office complexes meld with old world conversions and new luxurious residential constructions in the Financial District (FiDi). Tourists, vendors and corporate workers mesh in a daily dance amongst everyday conveniences ranging from coffee shops and quick lunch spots to fine dining and shopping. All roads and transport paths in New York seem to begin or end here. Such is a quick snapshot of life in the Financial District, home to the largest financial institutions in the world and reasonably-priced, full-served high-rise apartments.

Walking around today, it’s hard to believe this was once the cradle of New York City, but ever so often you’ll get a glimpse. As you move towards the “”foot”” of the island where you can find signs that depict former locations of structures from the early 1600s, or weave between its cozy streets, one can clearly imagine what once was. Much revitalization of former government buildings, financial institutions and older housing constructions is breathing new life into FiDi as the residential population of the area remains on the rise. This is expected to continue with the refurbishment of the highly-utilized subway hub at Fulton Street.

In many ways, the Financial District is exactly as you would expect it: towering glass buildings with well-dressed business people milling about. In other ways, the Financial District is full of surprises. It has many of the best parks in the City and gorgeous water-front views. As you move towards Battery Park City, it becomes a haven for families with children. It certainly is a center of business first, but is rapidly becoming a lot more friendly for living too.

In the the sections below, you'll get a glimpse into life in the Financial District. But before you go anywhere, make sure you scroll through the photos in the gallery below. Nothing can tell the story of a neighborhood as well as a few good photos. 

In a city that frequently blurs the distinction between residential and commercial, there is little doubt that the Financial District is a commercial district first and residential neighborhood second. A stroll through the neighborhood on a weekday during business hours will reveal a whirlwind of activity with a profile of people that extends well beyond just the typical banker. Take the same trip after dark or on the weekends and you would guess you are in a totally different, and much quieter place. Other than the distinct lack of bustle, the bigger challenge can be the occasional lack of service availability during those off-market hours: grocery stores, bars, restaurants, dry cleaners, etc. It's certainly not devoid of those services - but a lot of them close up when the commuters head home. 

As mentioned above, there are some spots in the Financial District that are becoming much more residential, particularly towards Battery Park. Plus an influx of luxury buildings over the past decade has made the rent a little bit more affordable than in other places in the City. Our advice, before moving into the Financial District make sure you spend some time in the area during off-peak hours; you might just love the peace and quiet.