wealthiest New Yorkers live? It’s not hard to guess the neighborhoods with the highest concentration of super-duper-rich residents, but the Census Bureau's American Community Survey offers concrete data.
So with that in mind, what are the richest neighborhoods in New York City? If you were going to guess that most of them are in Manhattan, you would be correct—here are the top 10:

Flatiron, on the western side of the neighborhood, is still somewhat upscale but is also well trafficked by college students, tourists, shoppers, and after-work crowds. Its main hubs of activity are Union Square, the famous wedge-shaped Flatiron Building, and shopping along Broadway, Fifth Avenue, and Sixth Avenue.

The shopping options, ranging from boutiques to chains, draw many people to the neighborhood, which occupies a sweet spot between the cool of downtown and the convenience of Midtown. Especially notable is the high concentration of bookstores in the Flatiron/Union Square area, from tiny themed indie booksellers to a huge Barnes & Noble. The neighborhood is a hotspot for food too - everything from fine dining to food trucks, plus a popular year-round farmers market.

Housing in Flatiron is interspersed with NYU dorms and other academic facilities, offices, and commercial spaces. Apartment buildings, which mostly offer doorman service in this area, range from historic to contemporary, and from four floors to about forty.

Overall, Gramercy and Flatiron represent a cultural blend between downtown and Midtown: upscale but accessible, hip but not edgy, family friendly but still possessing that fast-paced Manhattan vibe.

Flatiron is the inner west side of the blocks in the 20’s. The Flatiron District, a really nifty area, gets it name from the Flatiron Building, a building on 22nd and 5th that looks flat from the sides and–surprise–kind of like an iron. The real estate here used to be less than $1 million, however, now you’re likely to see prices around $2.5 million. 23rd street is the heart of the Financial District, and is flanked by Madison Square Park. It is a popular neighborhood among those working in entertainment, particularly models, directors, and media moguls. There are also a number of startups and coworking spaces in the area.