wealthiest New Yorkers live? It’s not hard to guess the neighborhoods with the highest concentration of super-duper-rich residents, but the Census Bureau's American Community Survey offers concrete data.
So with that in mind, what are the richest neighborhoods in New York City? If you were going to guess that most of them are in Manhattan, you would be correct—here are the top 10

The latest neighborhood we are exploring in New York is! can feel like a secluded, private neighborhood, even though it’s located in central Manhattan. With few tourist attractions, the neighborhood is filled with residents looking for a place to relax with privacy. It is bordered on the south by Union Square, to the west by the Flatiron District, and north by 23rd Street. 

The tree-lined streets are filled with quaint brownstones and town homes. is considered a beautiful and desirable place to live. The neighborhood is a mix of longtime residents and newcomers (many of whom are celebrities) who enjoy being just removed from the commotion of Union Square and the East Village.
The main draw of is Park, the only private park in Manhattan. Only the neighbors who live on the park’s perimeter have a key to unlock its gates (think Notting Hill). Park opens to the public one day a year on Christmas Eve for caroling. But if you are not lucky enough to be a resident, another option is to stay at the Park Hotel to receive the same access as those who pay an annual fee for a key to the park. 

Gramercy has deep ties to history and the arts. The National Arts Club and The Players Club sit next door to one another, and are both private clubs originally founded to support promote and educate the American people on the arts. 

Gramercy is also home to some great restaurants, Tavern among them. The street outside is currently under construction, so this isn’t a great photo, but don’t let that fool you. This is one of New York’s finest restaurants with a fixed priced tasting menu that will cost you a pretty penny. 

Pete’s Tavern, New York’s oldest continuously operating bar opened in 1864 and continues to serve some of the best Italian cuisine. Javelina is the cities’ only Tex-Mex restaurant. 

Other great picks in the neighborhood are Casa Mono, Friend of a Farmer, and Irving Farm. 

As for nightlife, Irving Plaza or Theater are the perfect spots to catch a show from some up and coming bands. If jazz music is more your thing, be sure to check out the Jazz Standard. 

In a city that is constantly in a state of rapid change, Gramercy NYC remains the sedate, historic pinnacle of tradition that it has always been. It provides the same quiet charm as always, even as its surrounding neighborhoods change their personas with the seasons. Nestled between the busiest parts of Manhattan, Gramercy is an urban oasis for those that would get FOMO living too far away from the city, but still value peace and quiet.

‘Gramercy’ is actually an anglicization of “Crommessie,” which was derived from the Dutch term, “Krom Moerasje” meaning “crooked little swamp.” This described the area before developer Samuel B. Riggles purchased the plot of land and set off to drain the swamp and develop Gramercy Park and the surrounding neighborhood upon the reclaimed land.

Since its creation, the park has been renowned for its exclusivity and privacy. This changed in 1863 when Gramercy Park was opened to Union Soldiers tasked with quelling the dangerous 1863 Draft Riots.

In 1966, the Gramercy Park neighborhood was designated as a historic district and was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1980. To this day, the park remains one of only 2 private parks in NYC. 
Gramercy NYC provides adequate accessibility to other areas within the city and outer boroughs, with access to the 4, 5, and 6 trains, as well as the N, Q, R, and L. Thankfully, the transit system doesn’t disrupt the quiet tranquility of the neighborhood.

The lifestyle in Gramercy is particularly devoid of the types of things that define lifestyles in other neighborhoods, such as restaurants, stores, and bars. Gramercy’s value is the counter-cultural vibe the neighborhood provides juxtaposed to Manhattan as a whole. If Manhattan is fast, busy, loud, and defined by change, Gramercy is leisurely, tranquil, and has withstood the test of time as a central location of tradition and history while still maintaining downtown ties.

The cuisine in the Gramercy NYC neighborhood reflects the area. While there’s nothing extreme or avant garde about the offerings, the area is saturated with plenty of quaint, charming, affordable eateries. Some of our favorites are Casa Mono, Upland, Maialino, and Friend of a Farmer.

Considering its status as an upper-tier neighborhood, its unique tradition and history, and its close proximity to downtown, the real estate prices in Gramercy are rather affordable compared to other highly sought-after neighborhoods. The median sales price for a property is $941,000 and the median rent is $3,300/mo.

For those not interested in the glitz and glamour of downtown life or in being part of the daily grind of Midtown, Gramercy NYC can be your quiet, safe haven within Manhattan. You’ll be surrounded by other like-minded people attracted to creating their own small town community within the big city, with one of the most lush, green environments in Manhattan (outside of Central Park) as your backdrop.

Gramercy, the quieter, more posh eastern section of the neighborhood, is centered on Gramercy Park, the only private park in Manhattan that is accessible exclusively to those who hold a key. Lovely, intricate details on landmarked houses, and actual backyards and even mansions (a rare sight in Manhattan) make it pretty apparent that most residents are well heeled. Indeed, the list of homeowners around Gramercy Park includes the likes of Julia Roberts, Uma Thurman, and Jimmy Fallon.

Besides the gated park and the beautiful homes that surround it, the area around Gramercy Park is home to two private arts clubs, the Players and the National Arts Club. But not everything around here is accessible only to those who can afford the annual members' fees. There are restaurants, bars, and stores along the north-south avenues, like in most of the rest of Manhattan. One classic spot is Pete's Tavern, where writer O. Henry spent time in the early 1900s.

Further from the iconic park are hospitals, schools, and public parks. Housing in the wider neighborhood of Gramercy is a mix of historic townhouses and both classic apartment buildings, and newer high-rises with doormen. Due to zoning laws, tall buildings don't get any higher than about twenty floors in this area.

Overall, Gramercy and Flatiron represent a cultural blend between downtown and Midtown: upscale but accessible, hip but not edgy, family friendly but still possessing that fast-paced Manhattan vibe.

Gramercy is one of the most beautiful neighborhoods in Manhattan. It’s downtown, but it’s almost its own silent corner. There are few tourists compared with the nearby East Village and Soho. At the middle of Gramercy is Gramercy Park, a privately owned enclave built in the 1800’s. Unless you live on the blocks facing the park, you cannot get a key and get in. The community of Gramercy Park isn’t very friendly, but the surrounding parts of Gramercy can be very welcoming.

It's Manhattan's only private park, but the neighborhood that surrounds the key-only parcel bears the same name. It's widely recognized as a posh area but also one of the island's prettiest pockets. It could be one of the city's most convenient addresses as Gramercy Park lies within a quick walk of Chelsea, the East Village, NoHo, Union Square, and NoMad. That means two public parks (Union Square Park and Madison Square Park) are within a quick jaunt for those who aren't lucky enough to inherit a key to Gramercy Park (there are just 383 keys in circulation). Some of the best restaurants in New York and old-school taverns dot the area, and the Players Club and the National Arts Club fit well into the neighborhood. You'll spend more on rent closer to the park, but toward the river, you might find a bargain. Expect to pay in the range of $2,500 for a small, walk-up one-bedroom, and more than $4,000 for a more spacious flat in a doorman building close to the park. If you can afford to rent on Gramercy Park, you may land one of those coveted keys and be able to explore a piece of Manhattan that few ever will.

Gramercy can easily be said to be one of New York City's more quiet and serene areas to reside in.

Snuggled by the Flatiron District, Stuy Town, Kips Bay, and Noho, it's surprising what a tranquil oasis this neighborhood is.

In this Gramercy Park neighborhood review, we'll look into public transportation, restaurants, average apartment rent, and home sale prices.

Though it may be centrally located in the city, sitting just north of the rowdy East Village, there are no big-name attractions to entice a chaotic environment.

Although, the neighborhood, its buildings, and institutions have a lot of history to brag about.

Though Gramercy Park is known to be a members-only exclusive park with keys only available to a select lucky few, the neighborhood's manicured brownstones, lush greenery, and all-around chill feel will help you look past not being one of those lucky few.

Residents are simply looking to relax somewhere in peace while also having the luxury of living in one of the world's most hectic cities.

Even if you're not a prospective resident, the elegant, historic brick townhouses aligning this upscale neighborhood deserves a gander if you're in the area.

FUN FACT: Roughly 400 numbered and coded keys to Gramercy Park are in circulation. They are very hard, if not impossible, to copy.

Zoning laws make it so that the tallest building in the area tops out at 20-stories. The largest private house in the neighborhood is a 42-room mansion that sold for $7 million in 1993.

Known for its classic townhouses and privately owned park, this quaint, lovely neighborhood's average cost of rent is definitely not cheap.

Many notable celebrities can be spotted strolling the streets of Gramercy.

If you're looking to move, finding an apartment facing the exclusive Gramercy Park may prove harder than you think, however you are provided the opportunity to snag one of these gems given you have the financial means to do so.

Residents of the townhouses, apartments and co-op buildings in the area admire the pre-war details like crown moldings, sunken living rooms, and high-end finishes.

This easily walkable neighborhood is within a few blocks of Greenwich Village and Union Square which both have CitiBike options as well access to most main subway lines.

The convenient placement of Gramercy provides residents with a smooth work commute. Safety is never an issue and the location allows for easy access to grocery stores, popular bars as well as some of the more lively areas of Manhattan.

Home to some of the cities more upscale fine dining spots, Gramercy has your pick of a variety of international quality cuisines.

If you want to catch a spectacular view of the Park, then head over to the Gramercy Park Hotel and go to Maialino. Be sure to make a reservations ahead of time!

Another other favorites spot with consistently good food and service is Upland. This stunningly spacious restaurant delivers taste bud satisfaction for all three meals. Celebrity sightings are not uncommon.

Irving Farm Coffee Roasters is great for an above-average cup of joe. This specialty coffee shop offers blends from around the world.

Gramercy Tavern has been one of America's favorite restaurants since its opening in 1994. There is no question as to why this is a five star restaurant that you need a reservation to enjoy. Gratuity is included in the bill, so just sit back and focus on enjoying the rustic fare from the wood-burning grill.

Of course, one of the main draw to Gramercy Park is the stunning private park that it's centered around.

While, it is nearly impossible to get a key (the locks change every year), you can easily gain access by renting a room at the Gramercy Park Hotel, which offers keys to its guests.

If you're looking for a night out with friends at a great pub or bar, Gramercy Park has no shortage of places to hang.

Some favorite neighborhood haunts include Rose Bar and Jade Bar at the Gramercy Park Hotel, Pete's Tavern, The Winslow, Ampersand, and the speakeasy-styled Dear Irving just to name a few.

Gramercy Park doesn't just stop there. There's day and night-time culture to be had.

Check out the neighborhood art scene at the likes of the National Art Club as well as the Sidney Mishkin Gallery at Baruch College.

For great performances musical and theatrical, look no further than the Players Club and the Gramercy Theatre. You'll even be able to catch a lot of laughs at the neighborhood comedy club The Stand.

