It’s hard to find a New York neighborhood with more urban charm than Greenwich Village, a cozy area of landmarked and leafy winding streets lined with low-rise brownstones. It’s also hard to find a place where a family can live: The neighborhood’s median asking price for a three bedroom, two bath is the same as Tribeca’s at $6,995,000, but there are just 41 for sale. (The median rent is an eye-popping $16,225 a three-bedroom apartment.)

Aside from the picturesque environs, The Village is home to community gathering place and informal performance venue Washington Square Park (which has a playground, dog run, large central fountain, and iconic Washington Square Arch), and Union Square and its playground are not far away. The presence of New York University is (for better or for worse) felt strongly here; the school does put on lots of family-friendly events and programming. NYU’s Skirball Center frequently stages shows for young audiences, and films of all kinds can be caught at the Angelika Film Center and the IFC Film Center & Cafe. 

Yet another neighborhood in District 2, Greenwich Village is home to strong elementary schools, including P.S. 41, P.S. 3, and P.S. 340, the last of which was opened in 2014 to help alleviate overcrowding at P.S. 41. 

Greenwich Village brings together many of the best parts of living in a big city: constant buzz, great bars and restaurants, easy to get around, while still retaining a small neighborhood feel. Although today's Village is very different from the neighborhood previously frequented by Bob Dylan and Jimi Hendrix, it retains much of its long-time cool. 

In the the sections below, you'll get a glimpse into life in Greenwich Village. But before you go anywhere, make sure you scroll through the photos in the gallery below. Nothing can tell the story of a neighborhood as well as a few good photos.

Greenwich Village's vibe is defined by its history. A long-time haven for free thinkers and free spirits, the neighborhood still exudes a cool that even decades of gentrification can't quite cover. Today, the Village is a melting pot of students, professionals, and lifers, all of which are attracted to the neighborhood's tree-lined streets, bars, and (expensive) brownstones.

After several decades of gentrification, Greenwich Village has long since smoothed its rougher edges. It is no longer the city's primary home to artists and poets, but still seems to attract those looking to unwind. During the day, Greenwich Village buzzes with tourists checking out Washington Square Park on their way down into SoHo, and remains just as crowded at night as younger New Yorkers converge on the neighborhood's bars and restaurants. Even today, Café Wha and the Bitter End are destinations for up-and-coming musicians hoping to travel the same path as previous regulars like Jimi Hendrix, Bob Dylan, and Bruce Springsteen.

Apart from the crowds, there isn't a lot about Greenwich Village that reminds you that you're in Manhattan. During the summer, the sidewalks spill over with outdoor seating for bars and cafes and the streets are more likely to be shaded by trees than high-rises. 

As the home of a large number of young professionals and several of New York University's campus buildings and dormitories, Greenwich Village certainly skews young. The neighborhoods cafes, restaurants, and shops typically cater to this younger target. But, on any given street you are also just as likely to find an older person out for a stroll, and if you asked them, they would likely tell you that they had lived in the Village for decades. 

Living in Greenwich Village typically means trading space and new construction for charm and a spot in the heart of Manhattan. Most Greenwich Village apartments are walk-ups, and nearly all of them are much smaller than would be available in other parts of the City. There are very few luxury buildings and only a small number of buildings with doormen. Given the small apartments and many flights of stairs, Greenwich Village typically isn't a destination for families. 

Commonly known as “The Village,” Greenwich Village used to be the bohemian capital. Like most other places in Manhattan, the desirability of living there has caused rents to increase. Today, it is home to combination of families, successful artists, and professionals. Living here can be expensive as the space is limited. Greenwich village has a very friendly community and is known to have the city’s best bakeries such as Magnolia Bakery on Bleecker Street. Greenwich village is often crowded during holidays, such as the Halloween Parade and the Gay Pride Parade, which you should definitely experience at least once if you live in NYC.

Located west of the lower east side of Manhattan, Greenwich Village is mostly known for being the epicenter of the counterculture movement of the 1960's.

In this Greenwich Village neighborhood review, we'll look into public transportation, restaurants, average apartment rent, and home sale prices.

The free love vibe has made it the cornerstone for artists, musicians and the LGBT community in particular.

Popular hangouts like The Stonewall Inn (see: Stonewall riots of 1969), Christopher Park and NYC AIDS Memorial Park are geared specifically toward raising awareness for the LGBT community.

Not only is the neighborhood's energy a stark contrast to the rest of Manhattan's, but so are the housing structures.

Most of the buildings in the Village are mid-rise apartments, 19th century row houses and one-family walk-ups.

Generally referred to as "the Village," this large neighborhood is surrounded by some other pretty hip areas.

It is bounded by the West Village (west of 6th Ave), the East Village (east of 4th Ave), Soho (south of Houston) and Chelsea (north of 14th St.).

The neighborhood's historical highlights have made the Village one of New York City's most famous areas.

But there's a catch...

Though it may be one of the most historic and picturesque parts of NYC, the cost of living is pricier and spaces are smaller than other neighborhoods.

With prestige comes high rental prices!

The Village is a serene escape from the hustle and bustle of the city, but only for those who can afford it.

Fun Fact: Before it was an unofficial hangout for NYU Students, Washington Square Park was a cemetery beginning in the late 18th century. In 1797, the Common Council acquired the land and used it as a potter’s field and place for public executions. Yikes!

If you're looking to move, Greenwich Village is comprised of a variety of buildings and edifices typical of lower Manhattan.

These include mid-rise buildings, historic townhouses, converted loft warehouses, and tenement-style apartment buildings.

Since the Village is one of the most popular areas in NYC, access to public transportation is a breeze.

One thing the Village is not short on is good food!

Looking to grab a quick tasty bite or dine fancy?

Greenwich Village has got what you didn't even know you need in your life.

The Village has so many options it'll make your head spin.

From the cheapest to the most expensive. Exquisite to the most unsophisticated. Both will not disappoint.

Pro Tip: Save yourself an ATM fee and carry cash to dinner. Many are cash only!

