Harlem is a big area, and you’ll find different features and character (and in some cases, school districts) in the neighborhoods of West, Central, and East Harlem. But overall, the neighborhood is home to numerous large apartments, going for fewer dollars (in some cases, significantly). As our recurring townhouse picks show, it’s also an area where, if you have your heart set on living in a brownstone, this type of housing stock is more affordable than other parts of the city. 

To the west, there is Riverbank State Park, a 28-acre, multi-level complex with an Olympic-size pool, carousel, playgrounds, skating rinks, and more. More central is St. Nicholas Park, where a playground was recently renovated. The northern part of Central Park includes the man-made lake, Harlem Meer, a wildlife habitat and popular spot for catch-and-release fishing; the Charles A. Dana Discovery Center, which holds programming and events, and Lasker Rink and pool. Central Harlem also has Marcus Garvey Park, where the rec center is slated for renovation. And to the East, Thomas Jefferson Park is an active community hub, with a new skate park, playgrounds, a pool, track, and rec center. Finally, on the far north end, there is Jackie Robinson Park, slated to see major improvements by 2020. 

Cultural institutions include the Apollo Theater, and to the south, El Museo del Barrio and the Museum of the City of New York. Both museums run family-friendly exhibits and programming. The Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, part of the New York Public Library system, was recently upgraded and holds a wide range of events, while the northern Macomb’s Bridge Library is moving to a larger, improved facility. Of course, the New York Yankees play just across the river in the Bronx. 

Three school districts cover Harlem: Northern part of District 3, District 4 (East Harlem) and District 5 (West Harlem). High performing schools in the area include public unzoned schools Central Park East 1 and Central Park East 2, with priority given first to families in District 4, and then District 5. Aranow cites District Five’s P.S. 125 as an up-and-comer, and many families opt for charter schools in the area, including Success Academy, KIPP Infinity, and Harlem Village Academy. For private school, there is Harlem Academy, which has a sliding scale tuition, and the usual suspects on the Upper West and East Sides and to the north in Riverdale. 

Harlem is known as one of the largest neighborhoods in Manhattan. Founded by the Dutch, it has had a reputation as a dangerous place with violence and drugs. However, it is becoming a much more livable and safe place. Harlem is now a mix of modern luxury buildings and affordable houses. The combination of new and old businesses blend together quite nicely. Harlem has a vibrant community with well-maintained parks where you can go for a jog in the morning or walk your dog. It is one of the most northern neighborhoods in Manhattan, so make sure to factor in the commute if you spend time downtown.

Located in the northern section of Manhattan, Harlem spans from the Harlem River on the East side of Manhattan to the Hudson River on the Westside.

In this Harlem neighborhood review, we'll look into public transportation, restaurants, average apartment rent, and home sale prices.

It's cradle between the neighborhoods of East Harlem, Morningside Heights, and Washington Heights.

Harlem is divided into two sections - Central and West, and includes numerous subdivisions such as Manhattanville, Sugarhill, and Hamilton Heights.

This area was well-known for the "Harlem Renaissance" in the 1920's and 30's, where celebs and artists flocked to the neighborhood to enjoy speakeasy drinking and performances by some of the best jazz musicians and dancers of the day.

A venue that's still popular today for performances and appearance by famous celebrities, The Apollo Theater is a historic theater that started as a burlesque theater in 1913.

Harlem is a great place to learn about black history, music, and art in New York and America, rich with libraries, museums, and galleries.

It's also a great place for peaceful views on the Hudson by heading over the Riverbank State Park. Harlem enjoys the presence of three parks within its boundaries and borders Morningside Park and Central Park.

Harlem offers a wealth of housing. Wide streets and fully-renovated century-old brownstones, limestone and brick townhouses make up most of Harlem's sound architecture.

Co-ops and condominiums are few and far between in this historically-rich neighborhood.

Attending Harlem church has become quite popular. So popular in fact that guests are often times turned away for lack of space.

Morning services are usually less crowded but remember to arrive early to ensure you get a spot!

FUN FACT: The Great Migration was the time from 1910 through 1920 where African Americans in large numbers migrated from the South to the North, after the Civil War for a better life.

From Ethiopian to Soul Food, Harlem's eight zip codes have a cuisine variety to cater to your palate.

If you're looking to take in more of the local scenes, the stop by Sylvia's Restaurant. For soul food, this is the biggest name in the city! They even have gospel brunch with live music every Sunday.

In the mood for Mexican? Stop by Oso, a cute little spot on Amsterdam Ave, for some delicious tacos and margaritas. Or choose anything from their wide-ranging menu and you won't be disappointed.

Voted #2 best chicken and waffles in the country, Amy Ruth's Home Style Southern Cuisine was inspired by the memory of a loving grandmother. The love does indeed live on through Amy's excellent southern food.

When you're ready to step outside of your cuisine comfort zone, head over to Zoma, a modern, upscale setting in lower Harlem that includes complex flavorings and layers of taste.
