Compared to the quaint enclave in the city that is Greenwich Village, Hell’s Kitchen feels more urban jungle, but development in and around the neighborhood makes it increasingly family-friendly. (Although admittedly, navigating the more tourist-filled streets of the area with a stroller can be a challenge.) 

With its proximity to Times Square, it’s obviously a good spot for fans of theater, but beyond Broadway, the Upright Citizens Brigade Theater and Theater Row on 42nd Street often host shows for kids. The Intrepid Sea, Air & Space Museum is at 46th and the Hudson River, and the neighborhood’s green space is De Witt Clinton Park, which has numerous athletic fields, a playground, a dog run and more.  The area also has a community garden that has been operating since 1978. 

The mega-development Hudson Yards, which debuted earlier this year, essentially brought a manufactured luxury neighborhood to the immediate south of Hell’s Kitchen, an area previously largely industrial. Amenity-heavy buildings are going up on the far West Side of the neighborhood; a recent Localize.city analysis found that more than 40 percent of Hell’s Kitchen homes for sale are in buildings with private pools. 

Hell’s Kitchen is another District 2 neighborhood, although a popular elementary school in the neighborhood is P.S. 212, which admits children from throughout the district via lottery. Adams sees many parents electing to send children to G&T programs outside the neighborhood, but Aranow identifies schools such as P.S. 51 and P.S. 111 as exciting schools with strong communities and programs (P.S. 51, in particular, is known for its arts curriculum).

Beautiful area, one of the (surprisingly) most affordable places in lower Manhattan. Great restaurants around every corner and close to all the big broadway theaters. Downside is, your closest/best trains are Times Square, which means dealing with that mess every day, even if you're just trying to get groceries. Also if you walk too far south you're guaranteed to be harassed by all the vagrants hanging out outside port authority.

Hell’s Kitchen is an awesome neighborhood. Take a stroll and take in the architecture, or go on an around the world food trip. There is so much to see and do, that you could spend multiple days and eating and exploring in this neighborhood alone! Spanning from 59th-34th and 8th Avenue west to the Hudson River, known for its plethora of restaurants, Hell’s Kitchen will leave your tummies happy.

So, let’s talk about food first! There are so many places to choose from, and virtually any cuisine you desire. From BBQ, to Thai, to French, to American classics you can’t go wrong. Room Service is some of the best Thai in the city, and if you want some good old fashioned BBQ try out Daisy Mae’s or Southern Hospitality. One of our favorite Mexican food spots is El Original because they are one of the few spots in the city that serve queso! Another all time favorite spot, Meatball Shop, has a location in Hell’s Kitchen. Don’t forget about Gotham West Market if you want a full sampling of foods!
If it’s just a snack you are looking for, pick up a cookie at Schmackary’s, or maybe some fresh bread and bakery items at Amy’s Bread!
 
For nightlife head to Flaming Saddles for a for sure good time, or Hudson Terrace for a little more of a lighthearted night out with friends.
 
Head on over to the river to experience the Intrepid Museum, or wave at the cruise ships as they take off!
If you want to stay in Hell’s Kitchen look no further than The Hudson, Yotel, or the Skyline Hotel. Ash and I have stayed at the Hudson and had an incredible experience. It’s a bit hidden, so make sure you look for the iconic trees that sit outside the entrance.
 
Hell’s Kitchen is an awesome neighborhood. Take a stroll and take in the architecture, or go on an around the world food trip. You won’t be disappointed in your results. There is so much to see and do, that you could spend multiple days and eating and exploring in this neighborhood alone!
Already familiar with this neighborhood? Leave a comment with your favorite spots. What neighborhood do you want us to explore next?

To the west of 8th Avenue lies Hell's Kitchen, a relatively calm section of the neighborhood-but it's all relative, of course. Hell's Kitchen has recently become studded with stylish restaurants and bars all up and down 8th and 9th Avenues. It is also one of the city's newer hotspots for gay nightlife, offering a more laid-back version of Chelsea's club scene.

With its wide streets and proximity to Times Square and Port Authority, Hell's Kitchen could never be considered quaint or quiet, but it does have its own charm. Most businesses are quite small, and historic buildings are less than six stories tall and house walk-up apartments. It's a popular home for actors and artists, as well as plenty of other people who want to live within walking distance of their jobs.

Hell’s kitchen may seem like a aggressive neighbor judging by its name, but that’s not the case. According to majority of the locals living here, it’s a very fun neighborhood. It has extensive theatre and restaurant culture. Hell’s Kitchen is now named Clinton, but most NYC citizens haven’t adapted to the new name yet. Hell’s Kitchen is home to many Broadway and off-Broadway theatres. Bryant park, the area’s greenery, has an ice skating rink in the winter and shows movies in the summer for free. You’re not too far from the chaos of Times Square, but it’s a little more peaceful.

Sandwiched between the Upper West Side and Chelsea on the west side of midtown Manhattan, Hell's kitchen has attracted many young professionals looking to make it in the entertainment industry, thanks to its proximity to Broadway theaters and the Actors Studio training school.

Many famous actors from Jerry Seinfeld to Madonna have resided there in large part because of that reason.

In this Hell's Kitchen neighborhood review, we'll look into public transportation, restaurants, average apartment rent, and home sale prices.

While the main theater area of Broadway is outside of Hell's Kitchen's borders, it is home to the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, The Upright Citizens Brigade Theatre, Broadway Dance Center, New World Stages, Terminal 5, and Stage 48.

You'll find plenty of activities along the Hudson River piers as well as the ever-popular Intrepid Air, Sea, and Space Museum.

And there's always an event or exhibition happening at the Jacob Javits Center to the southern end of the neighborhood.

Even if you don't find what you want within its boundaries, Columbus Circle, Central Park, Lincoln Center, and the Theater District are well within walking distance of Hell's Kitchen.

After almost 30 years of gentrification, Hell's Kitchen, also known as 'Clinton,' has gone from being the most sketchy part of Manhattan to one of the most sought-after areas to live.

Along with rising rent prices, the neighborhood is also seeing an increase in commercial and residential complexes.

Fun Fact: There are many theories as to how Hell's Kitchen got its name, but one of the most popular is the story of when:

Two cops, one green and the other seasoned were watching a riot in the same neighborhood involving ‘youth’ and ‘age.’

Gradually, it increased and the seasoned officer commented, “This place is a hell of its own.”

To this, the other Green Cop replied, “Hell is a mild climate for this street. This place is Hell’s Kitchen.”

Hell's Kitchen is bound by the 8th Avenue subway line on 50th Street but a short walk to 42nd Street will get you to Port Authority Bus Terminal or 34th Street - Hudson Yards Subway.

Hell's Kitchen has come a long way since it's low-rent crime-ridden days. Average rents have risen to some of the highest in the five boroughs.

However, Manhattan Plaza, a famously affordable building in the neighborhood since the 1970s and devoted to performing artists is still under Section 8. 70% of the unit is dedicated to those in the performing arts and entertainment industry.

Some famous people who have passed through are Larry David, Samuel L. Jackson, and Alicia Keys.

No other neighborhood in Manhattan can claim to hold the title of "Restaraunt Row," thanks to their awesome selection of ethnic cuisines.

You'll be able to find all kinds of restaurants, but Hell's Kitchen is known for great Thai (particularly along 9th Ave.).

However, there is no shortage of Brazilian, Mediterranean, French, Mexican, and even Afghani food in this 'hood.

Any of the distinctive restaurants found along 46th Street (between 8th and 9th Ave) is usually jam-packed with theater-goers or locals looking to savor quality flavors and tastes.

Foodies also make sure to never miss out on the annual International Food Festival which takes over Ninth Avenue every May, shutting down 20 blocks for local food vendors to shell out only the best international cuisines.

