With a median rent well below the Manhattan average of $3,250, it’s easy to see why Inwood is a destination for budget-conscious New Yorkers. Those who head up north will find that most of Inwood’s housing stock consists of smaller prewar buildings and semi-detached homes. Zoning laws have kept high-rises out of the area, but that may change as developers look to cash in on the neighborhood’s popularity and waterfront views. For now, Inwood residents are content to enjoy their hilly landscapes and tree-lined streets without the arrival of glossy new developments.

While Inwood may feel like a remote village, it is far from isolated. Served by the A express train and the 1 local line, Inwood makes getting to Midtown and lower Manhattan relatively easy. The A train from Dyckman Street Station can get you to Midtown in about 20 minutes. There’s also bus service:. The Bx12, Bx20, and Bx7 all provide transport for quick jaunts around the hood. Citi Bike hasn’t made its way this far north, but then local residents might not be in a rush to pedal uphill.

What the neighborhood lacks in large commercial shopping spots, it makes up with charm. The main thoroughfares of Dyckman Street and Broadway are both dotted with restaurants, bars and small shops. You can get your basic toiletries at Dichter Pharmacy and sit at the old school soda fountain while waiting for your prescription to be filled. When’s the last time you had a milkshake or sundae while shopping?

For big-box stores and a mall experience, take the 1 train two stops north to River Plaza at Broadway and 225th Stret. Target and Marshalls will gladly put a dent in your wallet.

If you’ve still got energy to burn after hiking up those steep streets, you can try out some of the neighborhood’s more specialized fitness studios. Planet Fitness is an all-purpose gym for those looking to save on monthly fees. Need a more personalized regimen? Hanuman Health Club will strike the right balance of holistic health and hardcore strength training. PRXNYC is for those looking to get their butt kicked with resistance and weight training.

If you prefer to exercise outdoors, you can’t beat Inwood’s parks and greenways. Both Inwood Hill Park and Isham Park are great spots for outdoor recreation, whether it be running through the woodsy paths of the former or doing sun salutations in the public gardens of the latter.  

Inwood offers something almost entirely unique in Manhattan—the ability to get away from it all. Perched right on the island's northernmost tip, this small neighborhood is surrounded by the Hudson and Harlem Rivers, giving it an infinitely spacious feel. The leafy, forested park is perfect for getting some respite from the nonstop buzz of downtown. There's also a recognizable community feel, with a strong European-style café culture.

Inwood may have the taste of an old-world, less crowded area of Manhattan, but it's far from isolated. The Express A train travels to Times Square in just a half hour, meaning events happening downtown are only minutes away.

As is a common theme in the neighborhood, apartments in Inwood are different than those elsewhere in the city. Longstanding building restrictions mean the majority of buildings are low-rise, giving the area an open and spacious feeling. Of course, the leafy parks help.

Inwood apartments for rent range from classic to modern, while Art Deco properties are somewhere in between. If you're drawn to older Inwood apartment rentals, most properties offer a long list of period features, from original cornicing to fully functioning fireplaces. In addition to these details, many buildings also offer communal gardens.

Inwood's waterside location has long been appealing; the caves in the local park even show signs of prehistoric habitation. More recently, though, Inwood was home to the Lenape Native Americans until Dutch settlers bought the land from them in the 17th century. When the subway and other transportation links arrived at the beginning of the 20th century, it really began to develop into the residential neighborhood it is today.

Night or day, it's easy to find good food in Inwood. Some of the neighborhood's main draws are the low-key coffee shops and eateries by the Dyckman Strip. Expect mid-day crowds at many of the eateries, as local workers flock to the cafés and delis during their lunch breaks. 

For evening dining, head to the area around the Dyckman Street Station. Just like the café scene in the daytime, restaurants in Inwood tend to spill out onto sidewalk terraces, making it easy to choose what you might want to eat as you walk along. 

One local favorite is Mamasushi, a Japanese restaurant with a Latin American twist. A menu favorite is the merengue roll with salmon tempura, avocado, cream cheese and sweet plantain. Beans and Vines (on the corner of Academy Street near Broadway) is an independent café that's a favorite for a quiet lunch or coffee.

Cachapas y Mas serves up authentically fresh Venezuelan food. Quick service and low prices (alongside big flavors) make it ideal for a fast meal on the way home in the neighborhood.

Without a doubt, Inwood's biggest attractions are its parks, and Inwood Hill Park and Fort Tryon Park are at top of the list.

Inwood Hill Park is great for exploring. The forest makes it a popular spot with birdwatchers, plus, it's almost entirely un-landscaped, which is rare in Manhattan. The park's slightly wild terrain sums up what makes Inwood such a unique neighborhood.

Fort Tryon Park is equally spectacular—most often visited by those seeking The Cloisters. Part of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, The Cloisters houses some impressive sculptures and pieces of decorative art. However, it's not just what's inside that's the draw; the building itself is the result of an ambitious project by architect Charles Collins which saw sections of five European abbeys disassembled and shipped to America, where they were rebuilt as one new structure.

Most people know Inwood NYC as the northernmost neighborhood in Manhattan. What many don’t know is that it has a charming culture and one of the most storied histories in all of NYC. The neighborhood is bound by the Harlem River to the north and east, the Hudson River to the west, and Fort Tryon Park and Dyckman Street to the south.

Inwood NYC has a fascinating history. In 1626, it’s believed the Dutch colony of New Netherland purchased Manhattan from the Lenape Native Americans. They would later establish the southern portion as New Amsterdam, which would become Manhattan. To this day, a plaque in Inwood Hill Park commemorates the rumored location where this deal took place.

The neighborhood was largely rural well into the early 20th century, until the development of the modern A and 1 train lines. At this point, opportunistic developers began constructing art deco apartment buildings on the east side of Broadway, in anticipation of an influx of new citizens. Many of these buildings still stand today and can be admired while taking a stroll along Broadway and the Hudson River.

Being in the northernmost tip of Manhattan, Inwood NYC is going to have less accessibility than a midtown or downtown neighborhood. With that being said, the introduction of new rail lines was a main contributor to the population and development boom in the neighborhood nearly a century ago. The A train runs along Broadway and can be accessed at the 207th Street Station or the Dyckman Street Station. The 1 train also serves the neighborhood, running along 10th Avenue.

The lifestyle in Inwood varies, with different areas having their own distinct cultures. West of Broadway to the Hudson River is a beautiful part of the neighborhood, luxury condos and lush parkscapes line the clean streets.  

Along Dyckman Street, nightlife is more prominent, housing bars and clubs like Dyckman Bar, Tryon Public House, and Fat Pig. Naturally, the area has more professionals and students, so it can get a bit loud. 

The cuisine in Inwood is diverse, offering an array of food options from different cultures and in various price ranges. Some of the neighborhood favorites are Beans and Vines, Indian Road Cafe, Raices, and Bocaditos Bistro.

Apart from being the northernmost neighborhood in Manhattan proper, Inwood is also one of our top picks for value for money. For its price, only East Harlem, Central Harlem, and Washington Heights can compare.  

Of these options, Inwood is definitely the often forgotten choice for those seeking a nice, spacious apartment on a budget. The median sales price for a 2-bedroom apartment is $539,000 and the median rent price for a 2-bedroom is $2,200.

Our final verdict on the often overlooked neighborhood is that it’s a great option for those commuting to work in midtown, or those looking for a quieter neighborhood away from the bustle.  

The neighborhood is a bit of a mixed bag, but some of the more sought after areas are just as nice as any neighborhood in Manhattan. Add Inwood’s affordability into the mix, and this may be one of the most underrated neighborhoods in NYC.  

In this Inwood neighborhood review, we'll look into public transportation, restaurants, average apartment rent and sale prices.

Located at the northernmost tip of Manhattan, Inwood is a low-key neighborhood bounded on three sides by the Harlem and Hudson Rivers.

Inwood is just north of Fort George/Hudson Heights and south of Spuyten Duyvil and Marble Hill.

Because of the neighborhood's zoning restrictions limiting building heights to seven stories, this Upper Manhattan enclave has been able to maintain a rather calm landscape.

Many residents describe Inwood as a friendly, community-oriented neighborhood where people watch out for each other.

It has more of suburban feel compared to the rest of Manhattan.

Though once plagued by crime and violence, Inwood has seen a huge drop in crime since the 1990's.

It is very culturally diverse. Nearly half of Inwood's residents are foreign born.

Specifically, Inwood is home to the city's largest Dominican population.

Fun Fact: 196-acre Inwood Hill Park, home of NYC's last natural salt marsh and natural forest, grants a very peaceful vibe to the area.

Inwood is often referred to as the last affordable neighborhood in Manhattan, so there is no better time than now to snatch a place while you can!

Although Inwood does not host the luxury apartments that can be found in Gramercy or Chelsea, it does have many spacious co-ops and low-rise walk-up tenements for a good value in an area with good schools.

I know what you're thinking....

"But the commute...it's going to be super inconvenient!"

I've got news for you my friend, it's really not!

You will most likely (depending on MTA) make it to your Midtown 9-5 faster than if you lived in Queens or Brooklyn.

Approximate time from Inwood to Midtown is 30 minutes.

Inwood is a very convenient neighborhood to live in if you use public transportation.

The A train from the 207 St. station will get you just about anywhere in the city in a matter of minutes.

Car owners, on the other hand, often encounter trouble when trying to find parking and parking garages will burn a hole in your wallet in no time.
