
Kips Bay is a neighborhood with the character of a toddler — or, rather, four toddlers immersed in parallel play. Stretching from the East River maybe to Lexington Avenue, and from 23rd Street to roughly 34th Street, it takes on a different aspect along each thoroughfare.

First Avenue in Kips Bay, for example, is an empire of health care dominated by NYU Langone medical center. Here, hospital buildings sit shoulder-to-shoulder, and scrubs are the principal street fashion.

Second Avenue has midcentury apartment buildings dressed in muddy brown and mustard brick. It also has one standout sand-colored Colossus: the 1962 Kips Bay Towers complex designed by I.M. Pei.

Third Avenue, especially north of 32nd Street, is saturated with bars and the people in their twenties who patronize them.

And Lexington Avenue is known for its string of South Asian restaurants that gave it the nickname “Curry Hill.”

A five-story limestone townhouse built in about 1885, with a two-bedroom, garden-level duplex and three floor-through one-bedroom apartments, listed at $5.4 million.
226 EAST 32ND STREET A five-story limestone townhouse built in about 1885, with a two-bedroom, garden-level duplex and three floor-through one-bedroom apartments, listed at $5.4 million. 212-574-6970
That “Curry Hill” puns on “Murray Hill,” the district just above it, speaks to Kips Bay’s identity issues. Two years ago, the news website DNAinfo asked residents of Kips Bay and Murray Hill to map their neighborhoods’ boundaries. What it received were two smears that overlapped, especially in the blocks between East 34th and 40th Streets, and faded west to Fifth Avenue.

Even the president of the Kips Bay Neighborhood Alliance, Molly Hollister, lives on Second Avenue and 35th Street, in what is mostly agreed to be Murray Hill. She said she sees no contradiction, because the now-filled-in East River inlet that gave Kips Bay its name extended up to East 37th Street.

Do these nit-picking definitions matter? Not to residents who are happy to trade anonymity for the chance to live near more stylish and expensive districts like Gramercy and NoMad. Or those who simply like the convenience of being close to the heart of Manhattan.

In 1971, Walter Bernard, 80, a publication designer, moved to Kips Bay, where he was working as the art director of the new New York magazine. The offices were in a former Tammany Hall clubhouse at 207 East 32nd Street, partly owned by a founder of the publication, Milton Glaser. A dinner party at the home of the photographer Pete Turner and his wife, Reine, introduced Mr. Bernard to Kips Bay Towers just a block away.

“It wasn’t a Park Avenue apartment,” he recalled of the Turners’ place, but it was spacious, had fine views and was reasonably priced.

Mr. Bernard rented a two-bedroom unit for $425 a month. After the towers were converted to condos in the mid-1980s, he and his wife, Bina, bought a three-bedroom apartment on the 15th floor, for about $150,000. He has been living there and working nearby ever since. Mr. Glaser works on the floor below.

Though increasingly affluent, Kips Bay lacks the magnetism of other neighborhoods, Mr. Bernard said. It is loaded with fast-food restaurants and convenience stores, but not so many “hangout places.” The Kips Bay Towers complex, currently being renovated, includes a three-acre park that closed to the public in the 1980s when the area experienced a rise in vagrancy and drugs. Though improved, residents say, Kips Bay still has a dearth of green space as well as some rough edges stemming in part from a men’s homeless shelter on East 30th Street.

Maia Szalavitz, 52, a writer who lives in the disputed territory of East 36th Street between Second and Third Avenues, near the Midtown Tunnel, described Kips Bay as the “least fashionable neighborhood in Manhattan.”

She wasn’t being entirely dismissive. Kips Bay is “one of the few middle-class neighborhoods here anymore,” she said. “It has immigrants, older people and families.” And yes, she conceded, “lots of bros.”

Lackluster high-rises partly define the area, but Kips Bay also has brick rowhouses and former tenement buildings with fire escapes zigzagging across the front. Setting a dramatic new tone just over the northeastern border is the American Copper Buildings, an angular, kissing pair of luxury towers with market-rate rents that start at $3,300 a month for a studio.

And while Kips Bay is rife with retail chains, it has quirky old businesses, too. Like La Delice, an 82-year-old pastry shop at 372 Third Avenue with a life-size statue of a rotund baker near the threshold. (People magazine reported that it supplied the sheet cake Tina Fey recently consumed in one sitting on “Saturday Night Live.”) Or like the 87-year-old Marchi’s restaurant, at 251 East 31st Street, which has been serving the same five-course Italian meal since at least 1965, when Craig Claiborne reviewed it for The New York Times. (“When you leave the premises, there is the feeling that you have dined well in a responsible establishment,” he wrote.)

But you don’t have to be old to be offbeat in Kips Bay. This is where Carmel Place, a 55-unit building with apartments of 360 square feet or less, introduced a pioneer project last year in tiny-home living. (A branch of Proof Coffee Roasters recently moved into the building’s base.) In May, Tipsy Scoop, a brand of liquor-infused ice cream opened its first shop at 217 East 26th Street; seasonal flavors include candy corn vodka martini and salted caramel apple brandy.

More conventional businesses are found on a retail strip on Second Avenue between East 30th and East 32nd Streets. They include the 15-screen AMC Loews Kips Bay movie theater that is something of a neighborhood landmark, and a five-year-old Fairway supermarket.

Because of low interest rates spurring home sales, the Kips Bay rental market is stagnant, with many landlords offering incentives like free months and reduced security fees.

Some also seek to attract tenants rooming in bunches. A large sign on the exterior of Kips Bay Court, at 490 Second Avenue, where a three-bedroom, 953-square-foot apartment is currently listed for $5,455 a month, announced, “Great for Sharing.”

“The supply is obviously up, and there’s a ton of new development,” said Brad Fazzone, a salesman at Buchbinder & Warren, which manages a residential building at 155 East 34th Street.

Dan Bamberger, a broker in Murray Hill, noted that the bar to ownership in Kips Bay is much lower than in the neighborhoods to the south and west. Greenwich Village homes, for example, cost “twice the price,” he said, though the area and its amenities are less than a mile away.

According to the real estate website Trulia, between May 24 and Aug. 23, the median sales price in Kips Bay (with the neighborhood’s western boundary defined as Park Avenue) was $999,999, based on 17 transactions. This figure represented a 23 percent year-on-year decrease. The median monthly rent in that same period was $3,072.

It's hard to believe that the bright lights and fast-paced traffic of Midtown are just a few blocks away from Kips Bay apartments. This peaceful riverside neighborhood is pet-friendly and people-friendly, with an easygoing residential attitude. There's a true community feel in Kips Bay, with longtime residents still using the same dry cleaners they've frequented for years. In Kips Bay you can get the best of both worlds. If you enjoy hustle and bustle, you'll find plenty of restaurants, bars and nightlife on Third Avenue. The closer you go to the river, the more relaxed and residential the atmosphere gets.

Tower blocks and townhouses by the East River

Luxury condos and high-rise co-ops are the most common type of housing in Kips Bay, but there are plenty of classic New York brownstones, too. Turn down the side streets to find pretty Kips Bay townhouses. East 31st Street and East 30th Street are great examples, with stretches of the leafy roads lined with colorful row houses. Kips Bay is also home to the city's first micro-unit apartment building, Carmel Place.

Colonial roots and revolutionary tales
Kips Bay was named after a Dutch settler, Jacobus Kip, known for growing the first garden in the colonies. His farmhouse survived for nearly 200 years and was the last building from New Amsterdam standing in New York City when it was demolished in 1851. People weren't quite so conservation-minded back then. During the Revolutionary War, 4,000 British troops landed at what is now East 33rd Street, taking New York shortly afterward. The neighborhood was built up slowly, and the result is a mish-mash of architectural styles. A clapboard house still stands on East 29th Street, and Broadway Alley remains the last unpaved street in New York. Huge condos were built during the '60s, notably Kips Bay Towers, four Henry Phipps high-rises and Waterside Plaza, a residential and commercial complex along the water.

American comfort food reigns supreme in this homey neighborhood

Although most places to eat can be found clustered around Third Avenue, there are gems to be found throughout Kips Bay. The Water Club is right on the East River, as it's on a boat. Far from being gimmicky, this restaurant has won local approval for its wine lists and classic take on Franco-American cooking. Date night in Kips Bay is made extra special with its steak, lobster and oysters.

There’s a great range of cozy neighborhood bars for after-work drinks. Head to Handcraft Kitchen & Cocktails for craft beers, small-batch spirits, and good old-fashioned comfort food. Its regular events include live music evenings and happy hours. Another neighborhood favorite is Penelope, a cafe-cum-bakery-cum-wine bar. The lunch and dinner menu features charmingly-named dishes like "Deliciousness on Toast" (ricotta, honey-roasted butternut squash, crispy sage and hazelnut) and "When Veggie Met Sally" (veggie burger and goat cheese salad), while locals wash down lazy brunches with blackberry Bellinis and soju Bloody Marys.

For fresh and warm pastries, look no further than La Delice Pastry Shop. Ever since their opening in 1935, La Delice Pastry Shop as been offering the residents of Kips Bay a fun way and fresh way to have pastries.

It's all fun and games in this neighborhood
Outings take on a retro twist at Modern Pinball NYC: part museum and part arcade, with machines dating from the '70s. It's owned by Steve Zahler, a real-life pinball wizard and one of the country's top-ranked players. Entry gives you free access to all of the machines (no coins, no tokens), which include vintage classics like Kiss and newer machines based on Game of Thrones. Paddy Reilly's Music Bar features live music in a typical Irish pub atmosphere seven days a week. Depending on when you visit, you may catch the open mic night, Irish music, singer-songwriter showcase or bluegrass jams. The neighborhood's local gym is the publicly owned Asser Levy Recreation Center. It has a fully stocked weight room, a range of cardio machines and a swimming pool.

Gourmet items and neighborhood essentials
Foodies are spoiled for choice in Kips Bay, with two renowned artisan grocers in the neighborhood. Kalustyan's has been selling Indian specialty foods to locals since 1944, and inside you’ll find rare fresh herbs and spices as well as dry goods, chutneys and fiery pickles. Another neighborhood mainstay is Todaro Bros., which has been selling fine imported foods from the Mediterranean since 1917. Visit for award-winning extra virgin olive oils, aged balsamic vinegars and freshly ground coffee. Trader Joe’s on Third Avenue is a welcome addition to the neighborhood, providing residents with a easy option for a full-on grocery trip.

All-singing and all-laughing entertainment
If you're not in the mood for Paddy Reilly's music nights, there are plenty of other options to check out. On Monday nights locals head to Whitman and Bloom for free comedy shows, with drink specials until 9:30 pm. Another local comedy favorite is New York Comedy Club, where top-rated stand-ups take to the stage every night of the week.

For an adventure in the arts, catch the performances at Reportorio Español, which performs 15 different shows each year. The theater opened in 1968 to promote Latin-American, Hispanic and Spanish culture. Kips Bay is also the launch point for many party cruise lines, which host special events throughout the year, such as summer after-work dance cruises and spooky midnight cruises for Halloween.

Murray Hill and Kip’s Bay are often lumped together as one neighborhood, but if you want to get technical, Kip’s Bay begins around East 23rd Street and stretches up to East 34th Street, at which point Murray Hill takes over and reaches it’s northern boundary at East 40th Street.

The area’s prevailing reputation is one of recent college grads, particularly those who like to throw back a few cold ones at local bars like Joshua Tree, Third and Long, and Bar 515. And while the area does host its fair share of 20-something former frat boys, it’s also home to an eclectic mix of business owners, well-heeled families, and life-long city residents.

The neighborhoods feature a mix of architecture from high-rise apartments to office buildings to historic townhouses. You’ll also find plenty of restaurants, shops, and bars – both those that cater to recent grads and those of the more gentile variety.

Unique in Manhattan is the commercial strip known as Kips Bay Plaza. This suburban-esque two street stretch features an AMC/Loews movie theater, Staples, Petco, Crunch Fitness, Rite-Aid, and a Fairway supermarket.

Kips Bay is a quiet neighborhood that gives you access to all. Union Square is not too far with its variety of stores, gyms, and eateries. Manhattan is quite noisy but Kips Bay is somewhat quieter. There are great movie theatres known for their spacious size in Kips Bay. The East Village, Flatiron and Chelsea are only 15 minute walks.

Located on the east side of New York City, this growing neighborhood is sandwiched next to midtown, between Murray Hill (to the North) and Gramercy Park (to the South).

The therapeutic East River views offer a breath of fresh air for those residing in this area of Manhattan.

There are many medical facilities, like Bellevue Hospital facilities and branches of NYU, like NYU College of Dentistry and NYU School of Medicine, in the area.

It makes sense that many students and recent college graduates who typically share apartments and live a busy lifestyle call this place home.

Many businesses are tucked away into brownstones and former tenement buildings.

While most of First Avenue is healthcare dominated with hospitals lining the area, Second Avenue has midcentury brick apartment buildings.

Fun Fact: The Battle of Kip's Bay played a role in the American Revolutionary War in 1776. British forces occupied the area which placed NYC in their hands for the course of the war.

Kips Bay offers a reasonable price for the amount of convenience it offers.

Post-war high rise apartment buildings and complexes as well as brownstones make up most of this residential neighborhood.

Overall, the rental prices are more affordable compared to other parts of Manhattan.

One perk of being located on the East River is having access to the NYC Ferry service.

It is located at 34th Street & Midtown Ferry Terminal and makes stops at Wall Street as well as multiple locations in Brooklyn and Queens.

When residents need to get somewhere outside of the hustle bustle of the Midtown area, the area is served by the 6 train.

Aggressive cyclists are seemingly everywhere in this neighborhood.

Because of its convenient location near Midtown most residents walk or bike to work.

The bike lanes on First and Second Avenue as well as the greenway along the East River make for an enjoyable commute.

Lexington Avenue and 28th Street also goes by nickname Curry Hill and is known for its South Asian restaurants.

To enjoy some of the most authentic Indian flavors in the city, stop by Mughlai or Chote Nawab

Many locals enjoy frequenting Blue Smoke, a BBQ joint that doubles as a basement live jazz venue. As one of NYC's very first BBQ restaurants, Blue Smoke offers city slickers a taste of Southern cooking.

For the ultimate fine-dining experience look no further than The Water Club. Great for anniversaries, special occasions or a nice evening meal, The Water Club is located direct on the East River with panoramic views of Manhattan!

YehCakes is the place to go if you want delicious custom designed cupcakes made for any event even if it's just trying to score points with co-workers. All cupcakes are baked to order and designs are homemade.

For daytime fun, pinball lovers will find paradise at Modern Pinball NYC. This high-energy arcade environment offers unlimited play with the purchase of a wristband.

For evening time fun, catch a NY Party Cruise. This experience offers guests the perfect opportunity to drink, dance and party all the while enjoying the Manhattan skyline and Statue of Liberty.

Most bars are located along Third Avenue, especially north of 32nd street.