wealthiest New Yorkers live?  It’s not hard to guess the neighborhoods with the highest concentration of super-duper-rich residents,  but the Census Bureau's American Community Survey offers concrete data. 
So with that in mind,  what are the richest neighborhoods in New York City?  If you were going to guess that most of them are in Manhattan,  you would be correct—here are the top 10
 
Our newest neighborhood guide features one of the smallest,  but perhaps the yummiest neighborhood in Manhattan- !  This little neighborhood is only comprised of a few blocks,  but every inch is filled with some of the best food and culture you can find outside of a museum.  sits between Tribeca and Soho on the west,  on the south by Chinatown,Bowery and Lower East Side to the east,  and Nolita on the north.   

The primary reason to visit is the food.  Apart from dozens of authentic Italian restaurants and bakeries,  there are a few shops and cafes.  This is also a pretty big residential area.   

Take a stroll down Mulberry for your choice of restaurants where the maitre d’s stands on the sidewalk beckoning you to stop in and enjoy a meal.  You can’t go wrong,  whichever you choose,  but Angelo’s,  Pellegrino’s,  and Original Vincent’s are all highly recommended.   
 
While in the neighborhood,  Shelby and I opted to grab lunch at Capri Ristorante.   

Shelby got a pizza and I got the gnocchi.  Both were FANTASTIC.  With honorable mention going to the giant bowl of parmesan cheese our waiter brought and left at our table.   
 
As we were leaving lunch we passed by this cart where a man was selling homemade biscotti.  We initially walked right by it,  but a block later I was immediately regretting not stopping,  so we doubled back and purchased a few pieces of the chocolate dipped almond biscotti.  
There are several great Italian bakeries in,  Caffe Palermo and Ferrara Bakery among them.  We decided to pop into Ferrara Bakery for a cannoli.   
 
Their dessert cases were filled with various types of delicious looking pastries they have perfected over their 125 years in business.   
 
These cannoli’s were good,  but we both agreed we liked the ones from Mike’s Pastry in Boston better.   

After you’ve stuffed yourself silly with delicious food,  stroll through the Italian American Museum.   
 

Then pop into the Christmas in New York store where you can pick up some souvenirs.   

If you’re in the mood to recreate one of your delicious meals,  head to Di Palo’s where you can pick up everything you would need.   

We’ve already told you about Cha Cha Matcha,  and while it’s not remotely Italian,  it does technically sit on the border of and Nolita.  It’s definitely worth a stop if you’re in the area.   
 
Another place that we love in is Milk  &  Cream Cereal Bar.  It’s the perfect sweet treat.  You mix your favorite childhood cereals with ice cream,  and let me tell you it’s something you need in your life! 

Little Italy was once an ethnic enclave full of Italian immigrants (see The Godfather for a fictional version), but now it's better known for its concentration of Italian restaurants than for its dwindling Italian American population. In fact, the small four-block-by-four-block neighborhood is gradually being swallowed up by nearby Chinatown and SoHo.

But Little Italy still maintains its festive spirit, and draws many tourists and curious New Yorkers, especially during events like the annual Feast of San Gennaro. Most of this activity is centered on Mulberry Street, home to Italian restaurants, bakeries, stores, and the Italian American Museum.

In both Chinatown and Little Italy, much of the housing consists of historic tenement buildings. But many of these apartments have been renovated in recent years, so they are a far cry from the shared, cramped quarters they once were. The neighborhood's newest residents favor large loft apartments converted from factory floors and warehouses. And, mixed in with the historic buildings, there is also some new construction, including luxury condos and doorman buildings.

As evidenced by the shiny new buildings, Chinatown and Little Italy are becoming a trendy area to live among young professionals who want to be near the action of downtown. Both ethnic neighborhoods have been undergoing change for a while, but still have very distinct vibes that set them apart from their beyond-hip neighbors, the Lower East Side and SoHo.