History of the Lower East Side
The Lower East Side has everything you could want in a New York City neighborhood, and it is no surprise that it is in high demand right now. Abbreviated as “LES”, the area is wedged between the East River and Bowery (east to west) and E. Houston to South Street (north to south).

For much of its early years, the LES was the prime spot for immigrants as they began their new lives in America. Hundreds, if not thousands, of tenements were built to accommodate for the large numbers of people pouring in every day.

With this came an exchange of individual histories and a unique mix of cultures for the neighborhood. By the time the Second World War was over, the LES was considered New York City’s first racially integrated neighborhood.

Today, although many groups have dispersed and created other neighborhoods, the streets of the LES still show the decades worth of culture.

The buildings of the Lower East Side tell its history. Many were once home to dozens of people per room, and have been remodeled since to create better spaces. However, the exteriors of the buildings have gone untouched because of their unique beauty.

If you are on the LES, you’ll be sure to spot pedimented entryways and hand-sculpted details, as well as large arched windows. It’s no surprise that the district is considered a landmark, and protected as such.

The neighborhood can be described as urban with a modern touch, especially with all the up-and-coming construction projects. Still, the soul of the buildings remain, and many apartments have beautiful exposed brick walls to add to their charm.

Unique Features of the Lower East Side
Many iconic artists grew up on the LES, such as the Marx Brothers and Irving Berlin, who helped shape the neighborhood’s rich history. The art scene lives on to this day, and the LES continues to be a center for contemporary art where many unique galleries are located, such as Bodega and Bridget Donahue.

The LES is also a hot destination for street artists in New York City who continuously brighten up street walls, buildings, and even abandoned storefronts and dumpsters with beautiful murals and other forms of street art.

History flows throughout the Lower East Side, and it doesn’t just stop at art. The Tenement Museum is proudly “bringing American immigration stories to life”. Take a tour of recreated saloons, official landmarks, or stay late on Thursdays for the various “Late Night Thursday” programs the museum offers every week.

Simply exploring the LES is also a great activity because of all of the art there is to view. There are a variety of restaurants to stop and grab a bite to eat at as well when you need a break from exploring this Manhattan neighborhood.

Top Food Choices on the Lower East Side
If you’re feeling hungry, you’re in luck! The LES is known for its variety of restaurants, bars, and cafes no matter the hour. Here are some of our favorites:

Katz’s Delicatessen: Katz’s is one of New York City’s most historic spots to eat. It was opened in 1888 and is arguably still the best place in NYC for a pastrami sandwich!
SakaMai: If you’re feeling risky, try SakaMai: A Japanese high-end cocktail bar and restaurant with a signature sea urchin bowl dish, “Egg on Egg on Egg,” and never-ending sake options.
Ice & Vice: Need to satisfy your sweet tooth? Ice & Vice is hailed as the “Willy Wonka of LES dessert.” They have unique treats that go beyond your imagination, and everything is handcrafted, too!

Full of Art: The LES is known for its extensive art history, and you can see murals on practically every street.
Trendy Food Spots: There are plenty of unique food spots in the area to try.
Fun and Fresh Nightlife: Once the sun sets, everyone flocks to the LES bars and clubs.

In the late 80s and early 90s, the Lower East Side was regarded as one of the most dangerous neighborhoods in the United States. Just two decades later, the neighbor would be almost unrecognizable to those who knew it then. Just how much has changed? In 2008, the National Trust for Historic Preservation placed the Lower East Side on its annual "11 Most Endangered Places" list, citing potential irreparable harm to the neighborhood's architectural and social history due to rapid development. Today, the neighborhood is one of New York's most diverse, bringing together a number of cultures and socioeconomic classes, while boasting a vibrant art and nightlife scene.

In the the sections below, you'll get a glimpse into life in the Lower East Side. But before you go anywhere, make sure you scroll through the photos in the gallery below. Nothing can tell the story of a neighborhood as well as a few good photos. 

Perhaps no section on this website is in need of more frequent updates than the vibe of the Lower East Side, simply because no neighborhood has undergone quite as much change in the last ten to fifteen years. One quick way to see how rapid this change has been compared to other parts of the City is to take a look at this map showing gentrification in New York since 2000. Home values, one way to measure gentrification, have increased 200-300% in the last decade, compared with 40-80% in other parts of Manhattan. That's not to say that the Lower East Side has lost its rich history or has become a "cookie-cutter" neighborhood - it absolutely has not.

The Lower East Side has a vibrant art scene and is home to many of New York's best bars and restaurants. A walk around the neighborhood will reveal its rich architectural history with plenty of still standing examples of its storied past. In fact, the recent push to preserve the neighborhood has slowed some of the development and caused people to figure out how to integrate their plans within the footprint of the neighborhood, rather then try to rebuild it. 

The Lower East Side (LES) still has some affordable prices. It not may be the most pretty part of the city, but it’s a fun area with a lot to do. Chinatown and Little Italy are right next door, which means so is great authentic foreign cuisine. The Lower East Side has a lot of history, as it was even more of an immigrant destination than the Lower East Side. There are museums and galleries all sprinkled throughout the area. The nightlife is a big attraction of the LES, with many clubs, bars, and late-night eateries staying open well into the night. It used to be a more dangerous part of the city, but is much safer now.

The Lower East Side also referred to as the LES, is located in the Southeast part of Manhattan between the Bowery to its west, the East River to its east, Canal Street to its south and Houston to its north.

The neighborhood is surrounded by Chinatown, Nolita, and the East Village.

In this Lower East Side neighborhood review, we'll look into public transportation, restaurants, average apartment rent, and home sale prices.

This eclectic neighborhood has your pick of tenement-style buildings mixed with upscale apartments.

You can explore the neighborhood's and New York's tenement past at the Tenement Museum, which offers visitors an opportunity to experience what life was life for the millions of immigrants who have come to the city and passed through the area.

The neighborhood attracts the hip, young crowd who visit for its music venues, trendy bars, and restaurants.

There is live music happening every night in the Lower East Side between the Bowery Ballroom, Mercury Lounge, Arlene's Grocery, Pianos, Parkside Lounge, and the Rockwood Music Hall.

New York University is located just a few blocks away making it a convenient hangout spot for students.

The gentrification began to really take hold in the early 2000s, transforming the Lower East Side one of the most trendy neighborhoods in the city.

Several fancy hotels and luxury condominiums like The Blue Condominium were erected creating a stark contrast to the neighborhood's architecture.

FUN FACT: By the 1840s, large numbers of German immigrants settled in the area, and a large part of it became known as "Little Germany" or "Kleindeutschland." The German population decreased in the early twentieth century as a result of the General Slocum disaster and due to anti-German sentiment prompted by World War I.

Both the Williamsburg Bridge and Manhattan Bridge connect the LES to Brooklyn.

There are also many bike lanes in the neighborhood and the Citywide Ferry Service is expected to begin serving the area this year.

Public transportation is also easily accessible throughout the LES.

If you're looking to move, five and six-story renovated walk-ups are most common in the Lower East Side.

These century-old tenement buildings are now alongside newly constructed high-rise luxury apartments and condos.

Space is very tight in this neighborhood due to it being one of the most densely populated working-class and immigrant settlement districts in Manhattan so space saving ideas are key!

