Price points aside, the neighborhood looks and feels a whole lot more like the Bronx than it does Manhattan. The housing stock is a mix of big, low-rise, brick apartment complexes and ramshackle Victorian homes. Instead of adhering to a strict grid of Manhattan streets, the streets in Marble Hill curve and wind over the area’s eponymous hill. As is the case in much of the Bronx, the streets take their names from the Dutch colonial days.

YES, you have crossed the Harlem River and, yes, that is the northern tip of Manhattan island that you can see to the south. But as residents of Marble Hill are quick to point out, you are not in the Bronx: because of a 19th-century public works project that reshaped Manhattan island and severed its topmost land, Marble Hill is across the river and into what logically should be the Bronx.

It is a quirky and little-known neighborhood whose residents consider it a well-kept secret. Where else in Manhattan can you find a six-bedroom, three-story house on a quiet, tree-lined street with an attic, a basement, an enclosed front porch and a pretty facade for sale for $174,000? Or a three-family house with six bedrooms on an architecturally magnificent street with an asking price of $295,000?

Realtors link the low prices partly to the fact that the homes are aging and may need repairs, and partly to the eagerness of elderly sellers, most of whom are retiring to their homelands in the Caribbean. Or to the fact that part of the small neighborhood is a giant public housing project.

There are 4,000 households in Marble Hill, but only 135 private homes. The neighborhood is divided, both physically and socially: clustered near the commercial spine of Broadway are the Marble Hill Houses, an 11-building housing development, while up on "the hill," the former site of marble quarries, are the attractive turn-of-the-century houses that lend the neighborhood its cachet.

"It's a very small area and there's a strong sense of neighborhood community about it," said Susan Goldy, president of the Bronx Board of Realtors. "It has the advantage of lower prices than some of the surrounding communities, like Riverdale, and it's really a very affordable alternative to most of Manhattan."

Rental apartments are easy to come by, but houses do not come on the market with great regularity (at last count, there were only five listed with real estate brokers). Some homeowners and landlords choose only to advertise their properties in the classified section of the local paper, The Riverdale Press, and many transactions are done even more informally. "People just don't move out, and when they do they often sell their homes to their neighbors," said H. Michael Pichardo, executive director of the Marble Hill Neighborhood Improvement Corporation.

In what many residents view as a vote of confidence for Marble Hill, City Councilman Guillermo Linares bought a house on Van Corlear Place a year and a half ago. "We just went driving around and looking, and we saw this house that had a sale sign," Mr. Linares said. "We talked to the owner, we looked at the area, we fell in love with it, and we have been very happy."

Mr. Linares said he had traded a relatively cramped and high-rent apartment in Washington Heights for a house with a backyard, three kitchens, three bathrooms, a finished basement, three bedrooms and an attic.

BUT even Mr. Linares, who was elected to represent the neighborhood in 1991, had not been aware of its existence or its status as part of Manhattan before he began campaigning for office. "Even though I had lived in Washington Heights all this time, I thought that on the other side of the 225th Street Bridge was the beginning of the Bronx," he said.

The confusion is extremely common. While Marble Hill residents vote in Manhattan, do jury duty there, and are represented by Manhattan officials, their municipal services come from the Bronx. Their fight for recognition as a Manhattan neighborhood has persisted for years. As recently as this decade, neighbors turned out in force to oppose the move to change their telephone area code from 212 to 718 (they lost).

Marble Hill was lopped from Manhattan in 1895, when the northern channel of the Harlem River was redug to make way for a ship canal. Soon after, the Spuyten Duyvil Creek was filled in, cementing Marble Hill to the Bronx. The Greater New York Charter of 1897 designated Marble Hill as part of Manhattan but not of New York County, producing decades of headaches and squabbles. In 1939, the Bronx Borough President, James J. Lyons, tried unsuccessfully to annex the neighborhood to the Bronx.

In 1984, the matter was settled with some finality when Assemblyman J. Brian Murtaugh and State Senator Franz Leichter sponsored successful legislation declaring the neighborhood part of Manhattan. Mr. Murtaugh, an Inwood resident, is a longtime Marble Hill enthusiast. "It's just a very unusual niche," he said. "It is one of the most ethnically and economically mixed neighborhoods in New York City, and yet they operate like a small town."

A community council meets monthly. In a recent example of civic activism, Mr. Murtaugh pointed to a successful effort by the police and local residents to close a bodega at 228th Street and Marble Hill Avenue where drug sales had been noted.

Formerly an Irish and Jewish bastion, Marble Hill's population is now about 35 percent black and 55 percent Hispanic. In the 50's, the construction of the Marble Hill Houses brought about the radical demographic change. "The church that I served went from an all white to an all black congregation," recalled the Rev. William Tieck, who served for 31 years as the pastor of St. Stephen's United Methodist Church, an old wooden church at the southeast corner of Marble Hill Avenue and 228th Street that serves as a focal point for the community.

The neighborhood's population of middle-class Hispanic people has continued to grow in recent years, and the first Asians have begun moving in. While whites make up only about 8 percent of the population now, their influence still permeates the neighborhood: Broadway is still dotted with Irish pubs that draw a loyal local clientele, and just over the Kingsbridge border are a kosher bakery and an Orthodox synagogue.

The Rev. Leonis Quinlan, the current pastor of St. Stephen's, moved to Marble Hill in 1991 and said that its heavily Dominican flavor came as a pleasant surprise. "It is Dominican in its essence," he said. "You can smell the foods in the air, you can hear the music. You see older men playing dominos in front of the bodegas, and women in traditional dress."

During the day, the neighborhood is populated -- some would say inundated -- by students from John F. Kennedy High School, a school of 5,100 that was built in 1972 for a student body of 3,500. Residents complain that the students generate noise and litter and crowd the local markets at lunchtime. But aside from the annoyance factor, the school's multiracial student body has caused no racial tensions.

"You don't have racial problems here -- there are no bias crimes," Mr. Pichardo of the neighborhood group said. "Show me another neighborhood in the city with this racial composition, this mix, where people get along." Relations are somewhat less harmonious between homeowners and residents of the housing projects.

UPHILL from the boxy housing projects is a cluster of attractive homes, many of them fixer-uppers. And some multifamily dwellings, like the one for sale at 121-123 West 227th Street, are already occupied by tenants with leases, compounding the difficulty of finding a property.

John Brown, an agent with the Robert E. Hill agency in Kingsbridge, said his office received few inquiries about Marble Hill. "At times we thought that the Marble Hill area was going to experience a renaissance, because of its interesting housing stock and its proximity to Manhattan, but it never did," he said.

Other than a few new health-food stores, there are still no signs that Marble Hill or its environs are going upscale. Yet fans of the neighborhood cite the convenience of its shopping district on Broadway, where mid-price retail stores and supermarkets abound.

Most of the shops lie over the Bronx border, but within easy walking distance. Residents also point with pride to the recently built Allen Pavilion, a community hospital operated by Columbia-Presbyterian hospital just across the river in Inwood. And they note the abundance of transportation options: both Metro-North and the IRT have stations in Marble Hill, numerous express buses run from Broadway and 230th Street to midtown Manhattan, and highways are close by.

On the down side, the neighborhood has no movie theaters, and dining options are limited to pubs and the Riverdale Diner. The noise from the elevated subway line is an annoyance to some residents, and the area's public schools are crowded (there are a few parochial schools just outside of Marble Hill). And, as with any urban area, the neighborhood does have its share of drug problems and blighted properties.

One neighborhood stalwart is Dr. Jeffrey L. Gurian, a dentist and comedy writer whose practice lies across the street from St. Stephen's. Through his career as a professional comedian, he has lured various celebrities to his office for dental work. "When they see the private homes and the trees, they all say it's much nicer than they ever expected," Dr. Gurian said.

On the flip side, Dr. Gurian said, the neighbors are equally astonished by some of his clients. When the actor Charlie Sheen and his bodyguard drove to the office in a stretch limousine, the police came over to check out the situation. "They don't expect to see a big stretch limo up here," Dr. Gurian said.