wealthiest New Yorkers live? It’s not hard to guess the neighborhoods with the highest concentration of super-duper-rich residents, but the Census Bureau's American Community Survey offers concrete data.
So with that in mind, what are the richest neighborhoods in New York City? If you were going to guess that most of them are in Manhattan, you would be correct—here are the top 10

Midtown West (also known as Hell’s Kitchen and Clinton) is the area traditionally bordered by 34th Street to 59th Street (south to north) and 5th Avenue to the Hudson River (east to west). The story of this neighborhood is a story of a dramatic transformation and neighborhood success.

After the Hudson River Railroad opened a station in the neighborhood in 1851, the area around the Hudson River docks bustled with commercial activity. German and Irish immigrants arrived in search of employment in the area’s factories, lumberyards, and slaughterhouses.

Tenements in the area quickly became overcrowded and many who lived in the congested, poverty-stricken area turned to gang life. Such persisted until the early-1990s when the city made efforts to enhance the neighborhood known as Hell’s Kitchen. Gentrification caused many of the working class to move out and the city even tried to rename Hell’s Kitchen, thus why some people call it “Clinton”.

Because of this modernization effort, “Hell’s Kitchen” is no longer descriptive of the area it was once known for but as an ever-growing, desirable residential neighborhood to live in. The city’s upscaling process has now infused Midtown West with newly minted luxury condos, fancy restaurants, and friendly bars/pubs.

Midtown West is next to everything that is “big” about New York City. It is only a short distance west from Times Square and Broadway. When you leave the bright lights, that is when you enter Hell’s Kitchen, which is a popular neighborhood for those looking for a short commute to their office in the commercial area of Midtown.

With a combination of affordable walk-ups, doorman buildings, as well as newer luxury-high rise buildings, NYC’s Midtown West boasts many options for those looking to move to the area. There is also no shortage of restaurants and activities since it is so close to the hub of New York City.

Midtown West is the perfect location for commuters. It contains one of the greatest concentrations of subway options in the city. The blue (A/C/E), yellow (N/Q/R), red (1/2/3), and purple (7) lines are all within walking distance from the area and are even connected underground (something very wonderful to have during the winter).

Port Authority Bus Terminal, the central hub for bus travel to and from New York City, and Pennsylvania Station, the main intercity railroad station in New York City, are also only a short distance away for those who reside in the neighborhood.

With Times Square, Broadway, Rockefeller Center, Central Park, Intrepid Sea, Air & Space Museum, and Gulliver’s Gate all nearby, there is always something to do in this part of the Big Apple.

Every weekend from 9am-5pm, traffic is blocked between the Lincoln Tunnel and Port Authority’s bus ramps to make way for Hell’s Kitchen Flea Market (which merged with Chelsea Flea Market in 2019) that is filled with dozens of vendors selling antiques, collectibles, vintage clothing, home decorations, and more!

Annually, usually taking place the first weekend after Mother’s Day, you can also catch the International Food Festival on 9th Avenue, one of New York’s largest and oldest traditions that celebrates New York diversity through food!

Looking to dine in Midtown West? Here are some of our agents’ favorite places to eat!

Nizza: This Midtown West Italian restaurant has an extensive menu with plenty of great options. Most, however, are attracted to this spot because of their Instagram-famous creamy burrata on fresh tomato, pesto, and Italian bread. For regulars, on the other hand, the Bottomless Brunch deal is a can’t-miss. For $18, you get unlimited mimosas, sangria, or bellinis for two hours!
Pure Thai Cookhouse: With so many Thai restaurants in New York City, Pure stands out from the crowd. It lives up to its name with a pure, quality taste since their noodles are homemade from a family recipe. Pure Thai is always packed at lunch and dinner time. According to Brandon Marianne Lee, “the line moves pretty fast, and for noodles like no other, the wait is definitely worth it!”
Empanada Mama: Craving an empanada? This is the place to be. With a menu of more than 40 empanadas, you can experience a variety of different flavors and put your cravings to rest. Triplemint Agent Shelly Place’s favorite empanada is The Viagra: An empanada filled with “mama’s seafood stew with fresh shrimp scallops and crab meat.” Open 24-7, this place is a go-to if you need a midnight snack!
Top Three Things We Love About Midtown West

Location, Location, Location: There is ease of transportation, which is perfect for commuters!
Beautiful New Condos: With the development of new buildings, Hell’s Kitchen is a great place to find new, modern abodes.
Dining Choices: Hell’s Kitchen is home to a breathtaking array of cuisines from all parts of the world.

Midtown West is home to several of the most famous tourist hotspots in the world: Times Square, Rockefeller Center, the Empire State Building, Macy's, and Madison Square Garden. And while these areas are certainly teeming with out-of-towners year-round, there are many different slices of New York to be found in the rest of the neighborhood.

Business is at the heart of Midtown West, which is dominated by office buildings and commercial spaces. One of the most prominent industries is media - NBC, the New York Times, and Condé Nast are all headquartered here. Another well-known specialty is live entertainment, including Broadway and off-Broadway theater, comedy, dance, and music (Carnegie Hall and Radio City are among the countless venues).

Plus, just about every major retail chain in the world has at least one location within Midtown West, so it's a strong magnet for shoppers-both the tourist variety and the after-work crowds. Most of the large stores are concentrated around Broadway, 5th Avenue, and 34th Street.

But aside from all the commuter and tourist traffic, people do actually live in Midtown West. Most apartments are in high-rise buildings with doormen, and range from tiny kitchenette studios for single, hard-working professionals, to swanky multi-million-dollar penthouses for executive types.
Another unique section of Midtown is Koreatown, a concentrated collection of Korean American businesses around 32nd Street. Much, much smaller than Chinatown and more of a commercial than a residential neighborhood, this ethnic hub is a popular spot for Asian food and karaoke bars, and draws a diverse crowd of young professionals at night.

Midtown Manhattan is one of the busiest place in NYC. Crawling with tourists, midtown is home to major attractions such as the Empire State Building and Times Square. Midtown is great for people who love crowds and bright lights. On New Year’s Eve, it is swamped with people waiting for the ball to drop. Times Square requires business owners to display illuminated signs, so you’ll never get bored.