Morningside Heights is known for its safe streets, rich history, and famed institutions. This neighborhood is defined by its strong residential community with a large emphasis on its history and intellect. Located between the Upper West Side and Harlem, Morningside Heights retains its energetic charm. New construction is ongoing in this neighborhood and its exciting attractions serve to draw new residents and tourists alike.

College students and young adults are often seen around the streets, thanks to the presence and expansion of Columbia University, Barnard College and Teachers College. But in addition to these educational institutions, there are numerous cultural and historical sites such as Grant’s Tomb, the Cathedral of Saint John the Divine, and Riverside Church.

Morningside Heights is one part tranquil suburb, one part buzzing Manhattan neighborhood. With Morningside Park to the east, Riverside Park to the west, and the public quad of Columbia University right in the middle, green spaces are easy to find. The village-like atmosphere is enhanced with farmers' markets throughout the week, while the area's laid-back restaurants and cozy bookstores are popular weekend haunts for locals. When the sun goes down, neighborhood residents head out for happy hour craft beers in low-key bars or visit late-night venues for cocktails and jazz.

Apartments in Morningside Heights are often spacious and have period features. Prime examples of Morningside Heights luxury apartments can be seen along Riverside Drive, complete with huge rooms, elegant façades and views across the Hudson. As you move away from the river, you'll find more historic co-ops and townhouses, many of which have recently been renovated while maintaining their original hardwood floors and interior brick walls.
 

Morningside Heights condos often have added perks like fitness centers, media lounges and rooftop decks to soak up the sun in the summer. These generously proportioned homes may also feature large picture windows, stainless steel kitchens and impressive vaulted ceilings.

While the rest of Manhattan was facing overcrowding during the 1800s, Morningside Heights only had a handful of large houses. This all started to change when Frederick Law Olmsted, one of the landscape architects behind Central Park, drew up plans for the two parks that sit on the east and west side of the neighborhood.

Columbia University purchased land soon after, and in 1904 the subway extended the 1 train to the neighborhood, making it an attractive prospect for commuters. Morningside Heights started to boom, with an eclectic mix of architecture transforming it into one of Manhattan's first low-rise commuter neighborhoods. Building continued through the 20th century, as lofty tower blocks and smaller townhouses started to pop up.


Comfort food and iconic eateries
With live jazz on Sundays and a laid-back atmosphere all week, Pisticci is known for healthy Italian food like free-range chicken grilled in sage, and whole wheat pasta. Its carbon-neutral footprint and green-powered kitchen draw in eco-conscious diners who can eat in the picturesque book-case lined dining room.


A few blocks down from Pisticci is Tom's Restaurant, where Seinfeld fans will recognize the fluorescent lights and façade which was featured as the exterior for Monk's Café in the show. Kitchenette Uptown on Amsterdam Avenue offers down-home Southern cooking, like huge platters of fried chicken, buttermilk biscuits and 'breakfast for dinner.' 

Enjoy outdoor space without leaving Manhattan
Morningside Park (which gave the neighborhood its name) is a 13-block oasis of greenery. Watch the joggers and dog-walkers, check out the waterfall and fountains, or just explore the winding tree-lined paths. Saturday visitors can pick up fresh local produce at the Down to Earth farmer's market, where highlights include heirloom tomatoes from upstate, handcrafted cheese from Yonkers, and artisan sausages from Brooklyn.

On the other side of the neighborhood, Riverside Park is ideal for socializing outdoors. Sports fans can enjoy games of basketball and baseball, joggers run the four-mile stretch, and others just sit and enjoy the view of the Hudson. For a touch of history, look out for Grant's Tomb (properly General Grant National Memorial), which commemorates President Ulysses S. Grant.

Open twice a week, the Columbia University Greenmarket is a lunch destination among locals, offering grab-and-go meals plus weekly groceries. Shoppers can pick up weekly groceries like turkey from New Jersey, wild-caught fish from Suffolk County and freshly baked breads.


Book Culture on Broadway is a real community hub, regularly hosting events like author-led readings and book clubs. As well as stocking a huge range of academic works focusing on the arts and humanities, they also sell quirky fiction and kids books.

Low-key happy hours and bar food
With its huge communal tables, Bernheim and Schwartz is a jovial Bavarian-style beer hall. Although it feels traditional, modern surprises like trendy craft beers and tuna sashimi taco can be found on the menu. Continue your evening at the Heights Bar and Grill, which has a rooftop bar and late night specials, or wander to the Lion's Head Tavern for a one-dollar beer.