~3-5 blocks from Herald Sq subways and Grand Central/33rd st 6, Quiet at night, Quick walk to Madison Sq Park/Gramercy/Flatiron. Good access to all parts of the city. Gingerman and Rattle & Hum close by.

Not many good restaurants in immediate walking distance, mostly just take out spots or places like Cask which entirely mediocre for the price., No neighborhood feel.

Formerly home to the City’s affluent during the late 1800s and early 1900s, Murray Hill offers plenty to attract those interested in NYC’s dining and nightlife scenes. The neighborhood is also a boon for culture lovers. On these streets, lined with prewar townhouses and Beaux-Arts mansions, you can find the Morgan Library & Museum, gifting the City with an enormous collection of rare books; and the sleek, modernist Scandinavia House, which holds an art gallery and frequent concerts and lectures.

Murray Hill and Kip’s Bay are often lumped together as one neighborhood, but if you want to get technical, Kip’s Bay begins around East 23rd Street and stretches up to East 34th Street, at which point Murray Hill takes over and reaches it’s northern boundary at East 40th Street.

The area’s prevailing reputation is one of recent college grads, particularly those who like to throw back a few cold ones at local bars like Joshua Tree, Third and Long, and Bar 515. And while the area does host its fair share of 20-something former frat boys, it’s also home to an eclectic mix of business owners, well-heeled families, and life-long city residents.

The neighborhoods feature a mix of architecture from high-rise apartments to office buildings to historic townhouses. You’ll also find plenty of restaurants, shops, and bars – both those that cater to recent grads and those of the more gentile variety.

Unique in Manhattan is the commercial strip known as Kips Bay Plaza. This suburban-esque two street stretch features an AMC/Loews movie theater, Staples, Petco, Crunch Fitness, Rite-Aid, and a Fairway supermarket.

While it may not be the hippest area in the city to live, this pleasant east midtown neighborhood with streets aligned with Nineteenth-century pre-war buildings is certainly cheaper than its surrounding counterparts.

In this Murray Hill neighborhood review, we'll look into public transportation, restaurants, average apartment rent, and home sale prices.

Despite the high number of bars and restaurants attracting people to the area, the energy is subdued to a comfortable level, unlike many other noisy Manhattan neighborhoods.

A lot of young professionals in corporate finance and NYC transplants inhabit this area making it a coveted hot spot for Irish pubs, sports bars, and reasonably priced cuisine.

Commonly used boundaries for Murray Hill are East 34th Street to East 42nd Street and Madison Avenue to the East River.

Some may even claim the best part of Murray Hill is not so much the neighborhood itself but its proximity to midtown Manhattan.

FUN FACT: The hill in “Murray Hill” was deliberately flattened as part of a work relief program designed to keep dockers employed during the 1808 embargo that closed New York harbor. Between 20 and 30 feet were taken off the summit and used for fill, all shoveled by hand.

Although Murray Hill may not be known as the culinary hotspot of the city, it's still New York City and the area is filled with a diverse range of affordable restaurants.

In particular, a subsection boasts a various assortment of Indian cuisine affording it the nickname “Curry Hill”.

Some local favorites include Spoon Table & Bar, Momosan Ramen & Sake, Dhaba and Tanner Smiths.

How Safe is