Nestled just above SoHo’s bustle, NoHo (for “North of Houston Street”) occupies only a few blocks—but proves that sometimes less is more. On the cultural front, the Public Theater is an incubator for edgy productions (including the hit show Hamilton), while the adjoining Joe’s Pub hosts adventurous cabaret-style acts. The rotating Astor Place Cube, near Cooper Union’s undulating steel-and-glass structure, is among the NYC’s quirkiest landmarks, and the bounty of restaurants at the neighborhood’s southern end are among the City’s most acclaimed.

NoHo is a small, trendy neighborhood primarily made up of loft apartments, which in turn makes it an expensive and desirable neighborhood. Upscale bars and stylish restaurants draw the well-heeled crowd. This former warehouse and retail district is an historic area with over a hundred buildings ranging from the early 19th century to the present. Occupying only a few blocks, NoHo makes a big, appealing splash.

You’d like to stay in an eclectic, bohemian bubble with all the benefits of downtown.
You like a stimulating environment that is not as crowded as SoHo or Greenwich.
You’re in NYC for architecture and arts.
You want easy access to public transportation.

Colonnade Row – Landmarked series of Greek Revival buildings built in early 1830’s.
Astor Place Theatre – Off-Broadway house in Colonnade Row.
Merchant’s House Museum – A glimpse into lives of a wealthy merchant-class family.
Joe’s Pub at the Public – Theater that supports young artists. Lady Gaga and Leonard Cohen have performed here.
Sheen Center for Thought and Culture
Walking – Roam the neighborhood to see eclectic mix of facades in all types of architecture.
Lots of coffee shops and boutiques.

For NYC newbies, NoHo stands for North of Houston Street and is generally used to describe the area directly above SoHo, east of the West Village, and south of Union Square. Once simply NYU’s stomping grounds, the neighborhood has transformed into a hotspot of its own in the past few decades. Keep reading to learn what restaurants, bars, and shops you need to check out the next time you set foot in the 10003.

NoHo is bounded by Mercer Street to the west and the Bowery to the east, and from East 9th Street in the north to East Houston Street in the south. NoHo is primarily made up of loft apartments (large, open, and usually formerly industrial spaces), which make it a very popular and expensive place to live. NoHo is also very centrally located with plenty of old New York charm, which contributes to its reputation as one of the best New York City neighborhoods to live in.

The name may sound very assuming, although the neighborhood is a fantastic place to live. The name Noho stands for North of Houston, as does SoHo which is South of Houston. NoHo is home to luxurious low-rise apartment buildings, upscale gyms, fancy juiceries, and chic cafés. It’s frequented by students, but that shouldn’t be a deal breaker. There is great access to all major subway lines, and it’s currently where the Kardashians live.