Nolita, or “North of Little Italy,” is a neighborhood in lower Manhattan bounded by Houston Street in the north, the Bowery on the east, Broome Street on the south, and Lafayette Street on the west. Once considered a part of nearby Little Italy, Nolita NYC is now considered its own entity with a distinct vibe composed of trendy, hip New Yorkers who flock to the area’s high-end luxury shops, boutiques, bars, and restaurants.

Many Manhattan neighborhoods follow a similar template; timeless, classic, and steeped in culture and rich history. That’s not necessarily the case with Nolita NYC. The neighborhood is like the indie, angsty teen of Manhattan, seemingly changing its look and feel as trends change. 

Its current personality is a relatively new phenomenon. The area was part of Little Italy as recently as the 1950s, and until the 1980s it was known as one of the tougher areas in Manhattan. Def Jam Records was headquartered in the neighborhood back then, and Martin Scorsese used the hardened area where he grew up as the inspiration and backdrop for a number of his gritty movies including, Mean Streets.  

An influx of professionals and artistic-types in the late 1980s and early 1990s helped the neighborhood begin its metamorphosis into the lively hub of luxury shopping and leisure that it is today.


Nolita NYC provides great access to public transit. The Spring Street stop gives you access to the 4 and 6 trains, the Prince Street stop gives access to the N and R, and the Broadway-Lafayette Street stop provides access to the B, D, F, and M trains.

Moby, Vanessa Carlton, and John Mayer all call the Nolita neighborhood home. While you’re out shopping for the best in streetwear or a unique boutique piece on Lafayette Street at Supreme, WeSC, Carhartt, Diamond Supply Co., Scotch and Soda, or DNA Footwear, keep your eyes peeled for the starlets.

The offspring of traditional, Italian cuisine and an adopter of modern, hip fare, Nolita NYC is home to some of the most delicious locales in Manhattan. Consider Lombardi’s if you’re looking for a classic Italian pizza or Chefs Club if you’re looking for something a bit more upscale and luxurious. There’s also a bunch of bars in the area including Sweet & Vicious, Mother’s Ruin, and Spring Lounge. 

Bearing a much closer similarity to SoHo than its former parent neighborhood Little Italy, real estate prices in NoliTa NYC are high due to the premium location and availability of properties. The median sales price for a property is $2,920,000 and the median rent is $3,800/mo.

There’s not much hidden about this “hidden gem” anymore, but this is still one of our top locations to live in for shopping, restaurants, and bars. It’s a great central location for all that lower Manhattan has to offer, and a great neighborhood in its own right, if a bit pricey.

NoLIta (for North of Little Italy) might retain many of the same features as nearby neighborhoods SoHo and Little Italy, but has a distinctly charming vibe all its own. The area’s cozy cafés, stylish boutiques and burgeoning bar scene make it a destination. Visit to browse the wares of independent designers and sit streetside at acclaimed restaurants and lounges. On a warm, bright day, few Manhattan neighborhoods offer better people-watching.

Nolita is bounded in the north by Houston Street, in the east by the Bowery, in the south by Broome Street, and in the west by Lafayette Street. As we mentioned previously, this neighborhood used to be home to a large number of Italian residents, but in recent years they’ve all but disappeared. Over the past few decades, Nolita has said goodbye to the Italian nonnas of the early twentieth-century and welcomed an influx of relatively young and wealthy residents along with their accompanying trendy boutiques, bars, and restaurants.

Originally part of Little Italy, this neighborhood North of today’s Little Italy has transformed into an upscale, coveted area of the city to call home. Nolita's brick and cast iron buildings are historic, defining the famous architecture the area is known for. The streets are lined with restaurants and boutiques that bring tinges of Old New York to mind, and while comparisons have been made between Nolita and Soho, Nolita is maturing into a distinct neighborhood in its own right.

The cobblestone streets provide a quaint feel rarely experienced in New York City, yet its location ensures easy access to busy, high-quality restaurants and stores. Nolita is not as commercial as the rest of Manhattan, making it an ideal living environment for someone looking for a trendy and convenient location without the constant bustle of Manhattan.

NoLita is a charming neighborhood right by SoHo. It has a trendy vibe, and is where a majority of people come to shop at various jewelry stores, boutiques, and designer outposts. It’s right by Broadway and also near the New Museum on Bowery. On weekends, you’ll also be able to find street vendors selling handmade jewelry.

This tiny, chic neighborhood is filled with cozy cafes and some of the best food gems in the city. In relation to its placement between neighborhoods, Nolita stands for North (No..) of Little Italy (..Lita).

Not mentioned in the name is Nolita’s relation east of Soho and west of the Lower East Side.

In this Nolita neighborhood review, we'll look into public transportation, restaurants, average apartment rent, and home sale prices.

Nolita, once home to late David Bowie, has situated itself as a unique mix of trendy Soho and the charm of Little Italy.

Street art changes weekly making the historic area a destination for millennials in search of the next best hipster selfie.

FUN FACT: In a neighborhood that's only a few blocks wide, apartments can be hard to find. Turnover rates are low because many residents know that if they leave Nolita, it might be difficult to come back.

Though transit options are not very convenient in this area, Nolita is the nexus of three popular neighborhoods with excellent transit options - Noho, Soho, and the Lower East Side.

The 6 train will bring you straight to Spring Street and Lafayette Street.

The RN and Q trains run along Broadway, while the DFB and M trains run along Broadway/Lafayette Street.

The subways link to downtown and midtown with connections at Union Square.

Over the years, an influx of small shops began attracting a much younger, hipper demographic to the neighborhood and this includes restaurants.

Uncle Boons (Thai), Cocoron (Japanese noodles), and Estela's (new American) are a prime example of the vibe Nolita offers today.

Drawing a heavy influence from its neighbor Little Italy, the tiny area offers many Italian hot spots as well.

One such old-school joint is Emilio's Ballato, which still attracts A-list celebrities to its premises like Rihanna and the Obamas.

A contemporary rendition on traditional Italian can be found in newer spots like Pasquale Jones and Rubirosa.

Some local favorites include Prince Street Pizza, La Esquina, and Epistrophy.