Roosevelt Island has always been a curious area of New York City. While it's technically part of Manhattan, it is a narrow island in New York City's East River. The whole island is only two miles long. At its widest point, it's only 800 feet.

Throughout its history the island mostly housed hospitals and prisons. There was even a smallpox hospital for contaminated, contagious patients that the the rest of the city's population didn't want to rub shoulders with. Today you can still visit some of those historical sites (a lighthouse is definitely worth the visit!) but most of the island is now full of apartment buildings, restaurants, and beautiful parks. You can stroll the East River and take in views of Manhattan and Queens. It's the home of numerous special events from firework shows to festivals.

With Roosevelt Island, the journey is as impressive as the destination. A tram takes you to and from the island giving you unobstructed, breathtaking looks at the city. It's so special locals ride it for fun or special occasions like birthdays or anniversaries.

The two-mile island is located in the middle of the East River. It is parallel to Manhattan's East 46th to 85th Streets.

From Queens you can get to the island via the Roosevelt Island Bridge — the only way to walk or drive onto the island. Its entrance is Vernon Boulevard & Main Street in Astoria.

From Manhattan, take the tram from E 59th St. and Second Avenue. It costs $2.25 to ride each way ($4 round trip), and you can pay using a MetroCard. Students with tram permits ride free; senior citizens and the disabled pay $1.00 each way. The views are spectacular! (Note: The tram only runs Sunday through Thursday: 6 a.m. - 2 a.m.; Friday and Saturday: 6 a.m. - 3:30 a.m.) You can also reach the island via the F train.

In 1973 Roosevelt Island was named after President Franklin D. Roosevelt (a New York state native) as an honor. But the island hadn't always been a place with which someone so distinguished would want to be associated.

Throughout the 19th century the island housed New York City's undesirables. There was a penitentiary on the island and a hospital to serve the needs of those inmates. There was a lunatic asylum, a workhouse to hold those convicted of lesser crimes, and a smallpox hospital. A lighthouse, named the Blackwell Island Light, was built by convicts and still stands today.

In the second half of the twentieth century the island started being used for different purposes. The United Nations headquarters opened close to the island, and many dignitaries wanted to live close to work. Prestigious architect firms created apartment buildings to house over 20,000 residents. A park, named the Frank D. Roosevelt Four Freedoms Park, was created for recreation. The tram was built and the later the subway station.

Now the island is the base for many different projects. Cornell created a tech campus there that opened in 2017. In June 2015 Hillary Clinton officially launched her Presidential Campaign on the island. There are numerous art museums and studios.

On the southern tip of Roosevelt Island is Franklin D. Roosevelt Four Freedoms Park. It's a memorial to the late President and is inspired by his famous Four Freedoms speech that he gave as part of his 1941 State of the Union Address. It was also the last work of the late Louis I. Kahn, a famous architect of the 20th century. It is free to walk around the 4-acre park and see parts of Roosevelt's speech inscribed on granite pillars. It also provides an excellent view of the United Nations building across the river.

History buffs shouldn't miss a chance to explore the Roosevelt Island Smallpox Ruins on the southern tip of the island where you can see remains of the crumbling hospital. On the other end of the island, at the most northern stretch, is the 50-foot-high Blackwell Island Lighthouse. There is a park surrounding it, which is a great place to enjoy the views surrounding the island. (NOTE: Roosevelt Island operates a free red bus that stops at different points of the island. See the schedule here.)

Art lovers should head to Rivaa, Roosevelt Island Visual Art Association. The gallery shows the work of local artists in addition to international guest artists. Painters, sculptors, computer artists, graphic designers, ceramists, and installation artists all show their masterpieces there. It's open Wednesdays and Fridays 6-9 p.m. and Saturdays and Sundays 11a.m.-5 p.m.

Roosevelt Island holds numerous seasonal events. There is cherry blossom festival in the spring, a family-friendly arts festival in the fall, a Halloween parade, a tree lighting ceremony, July Fourth fireworks, outdoor film screenings in the summer, and more. Roosevelt Island Operating Cooperation updates the schedule regularly on its website.

If you're visiting in the summer don't miss Roosevelt Island Day in June, a day dedicated to celebrating and enhancing the island. Entire families assist in beautification and clean-up projects. There is also a festival with carnival games and rides, food, live music, giveaways, and more. Information booths around the island teach visitors more about this beloved city treasure.

Franklin D. Roosevelt Four Freedoms Park also holds special activities for the entire family. The majority of their events occur May to October and include lectures, film screenings, festivals, live music and more.

There is a growing restaurant scene on Roosevelt Island. Most of the restaurants are congregated on Main Street. Bread & Butter is a market that has everything you could want: sandwiches, salads, burgers, pizza and soup. You can eat there or take it to the park for a picnic in the sunshine. Another place to pick up snacks is Wholesome Factory, a grocery steps away from the tram that is known for their omelets.

That kind of close-knit feeling may change, however. After the 2017 opening of Cornell Tech's new campus, about 1 million square feet of new development is set to follow, and Riverwalk’s eighth residential tower is coming to Roosevelt Island by 2020. And with Amazon HQ2 soon calling nearby Long Island City home, the secret may soon be out about the neighborhood I've loved from the moment I first set foot on it.

For that first visit, my husband and I took a midnight tram ride to Roosevelt Island. We set off north from the tramway, charmed by Main Street and how quiet everything was as buildings gave way to open space. By the time we sat on the wall behind Lighthouse Park's namesake, I knew our next home would be here. Two weeks later, we signed a two-year lease for a newly renovated one bedroom—sight unseen as it was still under construction, though we saw the same layout on a different floor—in one of the 1989-built Manhattan Park buildings. 

Directly between the two boroughs in the East River, Roosevelt Island is part of Manhattan’s Community Board 8. However, Roosevelt Island Operating Corporation runs the infrastructure, and the island has its own public safety department and waste disposal system, the AVAC, which collects waste via underground pneumatic tubes. (Fun fact: There is only one other AVAC operations of this size in the U.S. in Disneyworld.)

Yes, there is a Gristedes supermarket; Wholesome Factory, which offers a deli, prepared foods, and organic groceries; Bread & Butter Market, which serves as our friendly neighborhood deli; and a Duane Reade, which counts as a grocery, as any New Yorker knows. (If you consider booze a food group, there’s also Island Wine n Spirits). 

The commute is usually easier than my prior one from Harlem. (Keyword: Usually, as this is NYC after all). But there are several ways to get to and from Roosevelt Island. 

• The F train is the only NYC subway that serves the island, and it does, on occasion, stop running in one or both directions at night or on weekends. Like every subway line, it does get packed during rush-hour commutes. 

• The Astoria route of the NYC Ferry stops on Roosevelt Island and takes you to Astoria, Long Island City, 34th Street and Pier 11/Wall Street. Though you can’t use your MetroCard, ferry passage costs the same as one, $2.75 per trip. 

• The Q102 MTA bus loops around the island and connects riders to Queens via the Roosevelt Island Bridge. 

• The most unique way to travel is, obviously, the iconic red Roosevelt Island tram, which runs every seven to 15 minutes to and from 59th Street and Second Avenue in Manhattan. You can use your MetroCard—and get killer views during the five-minute ride. It runs from 6 a.m. to 2 a.m. Sunday through Thursday, and until 3:30 a.m., Fridays and Saturdays. 

• Additionally, the RIOC offers the free Red Bus surface shuttle that stops at several points, including the tram, subway and ferry, on Roosevelt Island every eight to 15 minutes. It runs from 5:30 a.m. to 2:30 a.m., and until 3:30 a.m.. Fridays and Saturdays and is a godsend in bad or hot weather. 

There sure are, and options include Japanese, Chinese, Italian, a spin on a traditional Greek diner, a bubble tea and ice cream joint, Subway, and Starbucks, as well as a cafe at Cornell Tech. Future eateries are on the horizon, including Mexican, hot-pot and a wine bar, Roosevelt Island Daily reported last month.  

You sure can, and most of the island-based restaurants deliver via that platform or another, and there are a lot of options from Astoria and Long Island City, too. 

Yes, but street parking is limited. The Motorgate garage is open 24/7 and offers daily and monthly rates. 

There’s a damn good chance. Known as Blackwell’s Island until 1921, it was home to several hospitals, a prison and the 1834-built New York City Lunatic Asylum, which were all well-documented as having horrific conditions for those housed there. 

All that remains of the asylum is the landmarked Octagon rotunda, which is now part of the housing complex aptly known as The Octagon, whose residential towers were built in 2006. (True Story II: We came across an apartment listing in our budget there, but I was too chicken to even look at it because of the site’s history. My dog sometimes gets antsy when we walk past the complex, which makes me think I was onto something.) 

In the southern part of Roosevelt Island are the landmarked ruins of the Smallpox Hospital, which opened in 1856 to keep the highly contagious patients from infecting the rest of the city. My dog and I find the ruins very creepy, especially at night even though they’re illuminated. 


True Story III: We rarely, if ever, leave the island if we don’t have to, especially on weekends. Mostly by choice because it's quiet and refreshing to be surrounded by so much green space. 

But having said that, there’s lots of space to roam. Four Freedoms State Park at the southernmost tip is a must-see, and is the first memorial to the island’s namesake, President Franklin D. Roosevelt, in his home state. Leaving there, you pass through bucolic Southpoint Park, and past the rolling grassy knolls of the Cornell Tech campus. 

At the northern end of Roosevelt Island is Lighthouse Park, where there is ample grass, picnic tables and grills, and a historic 50-foot-tall lighthouse built by the same architect that designed the Smallpox Hospital. I spend a lot of time here with my dog as it’s so pretty and peaceful. 

The east and west esplanades of Roosevelt Island were made for strolling, running, and biking, and are wide enough for everyone. 

Take the Roosevelt Island Tramway over the East River for a unique perspective on the City. Once closed to the public, today Roosevelt Island is home to a residential community and a number of parks and landmarks. At the island’s southern end, the Louis Kahn–designed Franklin D. Roosevelt Four Freedoms Park offers public programming and family-friendly events. Also in the historical vein: the Renwick Ruin, a former smallpox hospital; the Octagon tower, the remnants of an insane asylum; and, on the northern tip, a 19th-century lighthouse anchoring a park from where visitors can get wide-angle views of NYC.