wealthiest New Yorkers live? It’s not hard to guess the neighborhoods with the highest concentration of super-duper-rich residents, but the Census Bureau's American Community Survey offers concrete data.
So with that in mind, what are the richest neighborhoods in New York City? If you were going to guess that most of them are in Manhattan, you would be correct—here are the top 10:

Ditto Tribeca/Soho coming in at No. 2, given the recent influx of pricey developments—residences like celeb magnet 443 Greenwich Street, or the ultra-luxurious 70 Vestry—that have brought wealthier residents to the neighborhood.

History of SoHo
SoHo, short for “South of Houston Street”, is a district in downtown Manhattan widely known for its variety of shops and stores ranging from designer boutiques to trendy retail chain stores. Its elegant cast-iron architecture and cobblestone streets make it the perfect neighborhood for those looking to fulfill their dream of living in the Big Apple. But before SoHo came to be what it is today, it was a completely different world.

Prior to becoming a collection of iron-clad buildings, SoHo used to be a lush green farmland. By the early 19th century, the area had been urbanized and transformed into a prosperous neighborhood. SoHo rapidly developed and it became increasingly middle class with more businesses moving to the neighborhood.

Today, SoHo is one of the top shopping destinations in New York City. Although the area has been modernized, the buildings and streets still remind us of its history and make the area a charming place to live.

The Vibe of SoHo


Did you know that SoHo has the world’s largest collection of cast-iron buildings? The idea of cast-iron architecture became widely popular during the industrial revolution due to the fact that it has many advantages over wood and masonry.

Today, SoHo’s loft-style apartments, historic cast-iron architecture, and cobbled streets give the neighborhood a unique touch and make the vibe both classic and modern.

Unique Features of SoHo
SoHo’s most unique feature is its architectural buildings and cobbled style streets. Triplemint agent, Kemba Buchanan describes SoHo as “the stomping grounds for all things cool, chic, and trendy, and a scene where street style, people watching, and beautiful architecture collide.”

Because of the unique look of the neighborhood, many Instagrammers and producers will do photoshoots and film on the streets of SoHo. You might even find yourself bumping into a celebrity!

SoHo is also near some of the most popular neighborhoods in NYC. Chinatown, Little Italy and the East Village are all close by, so you’ll never run out of things to do or places to explore!

Things to do in SoHo


If you enjoy shopping as much as we do, SoHo is the place to be. Broadway is one of the most well-known streets of SoHo where there are tons of stores to browse. You can find many privately owned shops selling creative hand-crafted products, as well as big-name stores such as:

Topshop – 478 Broadway
Adidas – 115 Spring Street
Louis Vuitton – 116 Greene Street
Nike – 529 Broadway
Levi’s – 495 Broadway
Bloomingdale’s – 504 Broadway
Urban Outfitters – 628 Broadway
If you’re interested in art, SoHo is also home to many innovative art galleries that you can visit! Some of the best ones include:

Eden Fine Art Gallery – 470 Broome Street
LUMAS – 474 West Broadway
Morrison Hotel Gallery – 116 Prince Street
Soho Photo Gallery – 15 White Street
Top Food Choices in SoHo
Balthazar Restaurant: This romantic brasserie serves traditional French cuisine from breakfast to dinner, making it the perfect spot to take your date or your family out for a classic French meal! They also offer brunch on the weekends, with both sweet and savory dishes to indulge in.
La Esquina: If you’re looking for a good taco spot, you should definitely try this SoHo staple. There is a secret dining room/bar downstairs, giving this place a unique feel where you can feast on quesadillas, tacos, salads and more!
Pinch Chinese: Craving Chinese food? Pinch Chinese is known for its traditional soup dumplings that come in pork, seafood, or chicken. The spicy wontons with their “house crack sauce” are also a must-try!
Top Things We Love About SoHo

The Shopping: The abundance of store to shop at in SoHo make it the perfect place to spend an afternoon.
Variety of Food: There’s an abundance of food choices in SoHo whether you’re looking for a healthy meal or a drool-worthy dish.
The Aesthetic: The classic and modern touches in SoHo make it a unique NYC neighborhood that’s perfect for photoshoots!

Every global powerhouse has a neighborhood that's just a little bit trendier than all of the rest (Saint-Honoré, oui?). In New York City, that neighborhood is SoHo. Named for its location just SOuth of HOuston street, SoHo features cobble-stone streets lined with fashion boutiques, cafes, and art galleries. Be warned though, fashion comes at a price, and in SoHo that means some of the most expensive rents in the City.

In the the sections below, you'll get a glimpse into life in SoHo. But before you go anywhere, make sure you scroll through the photos in the gallery below. Nothing can tell the story of a neighborhood as well as a few good photos. 

For most New Yorkers, SoHo is the ultimate shopping destination. But for the lucky ones who live here, it's also a neighborhood of historic buildings, spacious lofts, cobblestone streets, and adorable little eateries. It's an iconic place, partly because of its famous transition from artists' haven to residence for the rich and famous; and also because of its cool-infused nickname (short for "south of Houston"). In both respects, it started a trend that plenty of other Manhattan and Brooklyn neighborhoods have since followed.

SoHo's crowds and most of its stores are centered on Broadway, which is bursting with flagship stores and stylish chains. Sidewalk vendors get in on the action too, setting up tables of scarves, sunglasses, and jewelry. A little further off the main drag, you'll find boutiques selling off-the-runway fashions by most of New York's famous designers.

It's this off-the-beaten-path (off-Broadway) part of the neighborhood where you'll find most of its charm and a much calmer vibe. Cobblestone streets are still common here, and most of the buildings are included in a historic district distinguished by its cast-iron facades. Especially after the stores close, the area can be beautiful and serene.

There's a sprinkling of restaurants throughout, including tiny neighborhood coffee shops where the owner might just know your name. And the owner of the luxury pet-grooming salon definitely knows your Yorkie's name. Many SoHo businesses off of the main shopping strip cater to a wealthy clientele, as rents here are not for bargain seekers. But despite being a place for the rich and chic, the neighborhood has managed to maintain a laid-back vibe.

Besides fashion, SoHo is famous for art. Once a major hub for artists, the neighborhood is still home to some galleries and performance spaces, although most have moved to Chelsea or other neighborhoods. Many of the apartments housed in the historic cast-iron buildings are spacious lofts once occupied by artists, before the full gentrification of the neighborhood played out (and still occupied by the super-successful ones).

Nowadays, young to middle-aged couples and stylish people of all ages live in SoHo. Besides the iconic cast-iron-facade lofts, other architectural gems such as brick townhouses can be found as well. Most buildings don't rise above six floors, although some taller apartment buildings have made their way in, especially west of 6th Avenue.

SoHo, home of the famous shopping street Broadway, is one of the trendiest neighborhoods and also one of the most expensive. There are many high-end restaurants and stores that attract a combination of the local and global elite. Many of the best boutique shops in New York City can be found in SoHo, along with the nicest hotels. As SoHo doesn’t follow the traditional street-naming rules, it can be confusing to get your bearings when first getting to the neighborhood. There’s always something cool to stumble upon, but you can also make generous use of navigation apps.

Soho is an artistic community located in lower Manhattan known for its upscale boutiques, art galleries, chic hotels, and trendy restaurants.

In this Soho neighborhood review, we'll look into public transportation, restaurants, average apartment rent, and home sale prices.

Well-known as one of New York City’s prime shopping districts, the name Soho refers to the area being “South of Houston Street.”

Its character and vibe is distinct from its neighboring areas of Tribeca, Chinatown, and Little Italy.

Those craving high-end clothing and accessories may have found their heaven on earth in Soho, with the streets lined with the world’s most notable stores like Burberry, Versace, and Prada.

For historical architecture buffs, an astonishing array of cast-iron buildings make the community a top destination for exploring.

And there’s plenty of art to savor in the various art galleries for all art enthusiasts, especially along West Broadway.

The uniqueness of Soho is that it's had a long history of an ever-changing and ever-evolving character and has basically returned to its original designation-a shopping and residential district.

FUN FACT: Broome Street is unusually wide (and full of traffic) because it is an essential crosstown artery, connecting the Williamsburg Bridge and the Holland Tunnel. Robert Moses intended to build an elevated concrete expressway over the street, but his plan was thwarted by fierce public opposition.

Soho has positioned itself as one of the most expensive neighborhoods in New York City and that won’t be changing anytime soon.

The cobblestone streets that make up Soho, also referred to as The Cast Iron District because that it houses the most extensive collection of historic cast-iron architecture, are permeated with buildings featuring giant windows, tall ceilings, and vast living spaces.

While it may not precisely radiate a residential feel among area dwellers, Soho offers some of the city's premier luxury rentals and loft spaces.

Although many top-dollar condominiums have replaced warehouse and factory lofts once used by designers and artists alike, the typical Soho resident will most likely experience the classic Soho loft experience.

Most grub spots in Soho are tastefully situated between exclusive boutique hotels on Prince Street, which visitors may miss without a careful watch.

Little Italy, Noho, Nolita and Tribeca, and Chinatown surround Soho making it a convenient area to various diverse ethnic restaurants.

The options are endless when it comes to finding good cuisine for breakfast, lunch or dinner in this area.

International visitors and residents make up a large part of the population, so a higher-than-average standard of authenticity is applied to food across borders.

Boqueria Spanish Tapas, Lure Fishbar, Shuka and Sadelle’s are some local favorites that are sure not to disappoint.