With more than a hundred curtains going up every night all over town, New York City presents audiences with a dizzying array of theatergoing experiences, from blockbuster musicals to intimate monologues. Navigating all the choices involved in putting together a night (or afternoon) at the theater can be a challenge even for seasoned locals. To help you make the most of your NYC theater experience, we’ve compiled this insider guide to ticket buying, preshow dining, theater etiquette and even postshow stargazing.

Broadway—officially, the 41 theaters with 500 or more seats in the Times Square area—has become the home of big, splashy musicals and star vehicles, with prices to match: $130 to $180 for orchestra seats, and twice that for “premium” tickets. Meanwhile, so-called straight plays (dramas without music) can mostly be found Off-Broadway, thriving under the auspices of various nonprofit theater companies. The setting is more intimate (100 to 499 seats) and the tickets less expensive ($40 to $120). While traditionally associated with downtown, Off-Broadway has a healthy presence in the Theatre District and elsewhere in Manhattan; the same goes for Off-Off-Broadway, whose small (fewer than 100 seats), scruffier spaces can also be found in Brooklyn and serve as a laboratory for new voices and the theatrical vanguard, with tickets as low as the $15 range.


This district stretches from 34th St, through the heavily commercial West 30s up to 59th St (beyond which is Central Park), and lies west of 6th Ave. The West Side is home not only to the famed "Great White Way" (Broadway), but to the emerging business district centered on the now thoroughly Disneyfied Times Square. The Theater District centers on the outlandishly commercial "New" 42nd St and heads up Broadway and 7th Aves, melding to the west with the resurgent neighborhood of Hell's Kitchen and its commercial strip on 9th Ave, and to the north with the newly-built Time Warner Center at Columbus Cir. The area becomes increasingly residential as you go north or west, and more commercial to the east and south. Many of Manhattan's largest hotels (including the Hilton and the Sheraton) are located on 6th or 7th Ave in this area.