The Upper East Side’s downtown, cooler cousin, Tribeca is family-friendly with an extra edge of exclusivity, thanks to cost and inventory. (There are currently 540 three-bedroom, two-bath apartments available on the Upper East Side, with a median listing price of $4.4 million, while in Tribeca, the median listing price for the same size apartment is $6.9 and there are just 149 on the market. Tribeca scored the highest median rent of any neighborhood on our list, at $22,500.)

“Tribeca’s chic buildings with sprawling apartments have given the Upper East Side a run for its money when it comes to attracting wealthy families,” says Liat Halpern, Localize.city's urban planner.

Spots that attract local families include Hudson River Park’s Pier 25 (which even has a mini-golf course), and more “inland," Washington Market Park. 

Localize.city notes that Pier 26 at North Moore Street will turn into a new ecological park by fall 2020, “with two kid-sized fields and a ‘science playground’ that will also serve as an educational experience. Part of the pier will have a wetland tidal pool area that will be used to educate kids about climate change, the Hudson River, native birds, and wildlife.”

Just north of Tribeca is the popular and innovative Children’s Museum of the Arts. Play and enrichment spaces in the neighborhood are lovely and engaging—and often require some kind of membership fee. The area is, of course, home to the Tribeca Film Festival, and cinephile destination Film Forum runs a film series just for kids. 

Another District 2 neighborhood, Tribeca has strong public elementary schools; in 2009, The Spruce Street School was opened (on the first five floors of a Frank Gehry-designed skyscraper) to accommodate the area's growing number of families. 

Neighborhood boundaries: The area got its name from the phrase, Triangle Below Canal so it's northern boundary is Canal Street to Lafayette and Broadway. The western perimeter is the West Side Highway along the Hudson River and Tribeca’s southern boundary is Vesey Street.

Transportation: Plenty of subway lines converge in Tribeca, so getting to either side of Midtown, Uptown or Brooklyn will generally be a direct service with no changes. For subway stops you’ve got Canal Street, Chambers Street, Franklin Street, Park Place, and World Trade Center served by the A, C, E, N, Q, R, W, 1, 2, and 3 lines.

There are few neighborhoods in Manhattan where parking is easy—and it’s no different for Tribeca where the Community Board fields many parking-related complaints. Another issue is the traffic around the Holland Tunnel, which Tribeca residents say clogs up the neighborhood as it backs up during rush hour.

Real Estate: The current median asking price for a three-bedroom unit in Tribeca is $5,695,000 and the median monthly rental for a similar unit is $15,625. That’s double the rent of a two bedroom which is $7,800. If you can get by with a studio, the median asking price is $1,750,000 and the median monthly rental of a studio is currently $3,800.

Tribeca used to be a manufacturing and industrial area and in the 1980s, developers snapped up warehouses and converted them, pulling in an edgier, artistic crowd.

Notaro says apartments in Tribeca "are known for their large footprints, so you have more bedrooms, people with families and also because some of them are larger and upscale, you have people with larger incomes and a diversity of livelihoods.”

Much of the neighborhood is landmarked, which has made it harder for developers to muscle into the area, but not impossible—30 Park Place built in 2016 and the redeveloped Woolworth Tower Residences are two recent examples. Patrick Mills, a broker with CORE, says a typical Tribeca buyer is looking for a unit with character.

“Even the new developments tend to be a little edgier and have a lot of personality. Just look at 56 Leonard, the "Jenga building." It’s one of the most interesting buildings, it’s beautiful, has changed the skyline forever and certainly stands out. That’s Tribeca,” he says.

Living: It goes without saying, you’ll need funds for this neighborhood. According to Bloomberg’s annual ranking, NY 10007 in Tribeca just landed the fifth spot in America’s richest zip codes.

Famous for its cobblestone streets, loading docks, wooden water towers, and metal awnings, the area gives a glimpse of what New York City used to be like, but it's also a mecca for hip shopping and fine dining.

If you’re moving to the area, expect your neighbors to have second homes in the Hamptons and live chic, creative lives. Many come from wealth and can take advantage of all that the area offers. Even if that’s not "you," it’s a scene that’s a quintessential part of New York, and you get to see it in your neighborhood.


A converted condo loft building on Hudson Street in Tribeca—a coveted residence for those wanting an essential NYC experience. Eden, Janine and Jum via Flickr
A typical Tribeca resident might have outgrown the West Village, says Mills.

“They are holding onto the grit and artistic energy and the history of the Downtown life.” That’s what’s offered by Tribeca’s industrial buildings—lofts with enviable square footage, which is what you’re looking for when you start a family and want to stay in Manhattan. Mills says, “1,500 square feet is not a lot for the rest of the world but it’s a lot for a family in NYC.”

Mills says the gentrification of the area has really taken off in the post-Giuliani years, ushering in "some of the best private schools, some of the best public schools. It’s not a surprise when you see this old industrial neighborhood turn into a vibrant, family-focused neighborhood. At the other end of the spectrum you have super famous, A-list celebs who could also be your neighbor.”

This isn’t an area that’s humming til 6 a.m. though.

“You could certainly say, because of the location and the price of living there, it’s a more mature neighborhood than the West Village, Chelsea or Hell’s Kitchen,” Mills says. He thinks that energy has moved Uptown or out to Brooklyn. The nightlife in Tribeca is confined to upscale bars rather than a raucous party scene.

Perhaps because it’s a residential area and because many families are out of town come Friday night, the weekends are fairly quiet in Tribeca. You’re not going to be waiting in line for two hours for brunch as you might in the West Village.

Eating and dining: One of the consequences of living in such an upscale area is the restaurants are pricey, even though many are kid-friendly. Bubby’s and The Odeon are popular with families. For stellar falafel try Nish Nush. Tribeca is perhaps less eclectic than it once was but most residents are still willing to pay a bit more for an interesting if casual dining experience—think Atera where fine dining meets sensory theater with 16-course dinners, prepared before your eyes. “Just because it’s casual doesn’t mean it’s going to cost less,” Mills says.

Area gems: The area isn’t flush with museums or theaters but Elite Gymnastics offers a top-notch gym program and Church Street Music is the area's only non-profit school for the arts. There’s also the Downtown Dance Factory and the Manhattan Youth Community Center.  One resident with school-aged kids tells us Brooklyn Game Lab is a welcome addition and the Robot Factory seems to be hanging on. "We could use more day camps and after-school clubs like those,” she says

Pier 25 is popular with families and has mini golf, a cafe and volleyball courts as well as a sailboat in the summer. There’s also Washington Market Park, which has a playground and offers a series of summer concerts. In the dead of winter, parents of little ones will appreciate the neighborhood’s members-only indoor toddler space, Play Garden.

Local celebrities: There's no shortage of celebrities taking advantage of the Downtown lifestyle. Probably the most famous resident and unofficial mayor is Robert De Niro. Taylor Swift, Beyonce, and Jay Z are at 195 Hudson. 443 Greenwich is home to Jake Gyllenhaal, Justin Timberlake, Jennifer Lawrence, and Meg Ryan—and that’s just one building.

“Most celebs are drawn to that West Village vibe but you can’t really find something as big there so they’re in Tribeca where it’s more paparazzi proof,” Mills says. He says Tribeca has fewer tourists and “real New Yorkers aren’t going to stop a celebrity in the street—you just move on with your life.” (You’ve been warned.) Tom Brady and Giselle bought at 70 Vestry, which has an interior courtyard where a car can pull in for enhanced privacy.

wealthiest New Yorkers live? It’s not hard to guess the neighborhoods with the highest concentration of super-duper-rich residents, but the Census Bureau's American Community Survey offers concrete data.
So with that in mind, what are the richest neighborhoods in New York City? If you were going to guess that most of them are in Manhattan, you would be correct—here are the top 10:

Ditto Tribeca/Soho coming in at No. 2, given the recent influx of pricey developments—residences like celeb magnet 443 Greenwich Street, or the ultra-luxurious 70 Vestry—that have brought wealthier residents to the neighborhood.

History of Tribeca
Located in Downtown Manhattan between St. James Place and West Street (east to west) and Canal Street and Vesey Street (north to south), Tribeca is a chic neighborhood that is characterized by cobblestone streets, incredible restaurants, and industrial buildings that have been turned into high-end residences.

Although Tribeca is currently one of the most expensive neighborhoods to live in New York City, it certainly did not start off that way.

Tribeca, which is an acronym for “Triangle below Canal Street,” was formerly an industrial area filled with warehouses. Artists flocked to these spacious abandoned lofts in the 70s which caused the neighborhood to transform into the home of some of New York’s most well-known artists and their galleries.

Today, Tribeca is a hip neighborhood with high-end boutiques, five-star restaurants, and luxury apartments that some of Manhattan’s most elite residences call home.

The Vibe of Tribeca
Tribeca perfectly blends modern sophistication with an industrial flair. It is fairly quiet compared to some of Manhattan’s other neighborhoods and its streets are hardly ever congested with crowds of people.

With high-rise buildings, unique lofts, and no shortage of outdoor space to enjoy, it’s no wonder Tribeca is so popular.

Fun fact: Many streets are considered historic landmarks and the entire neighborhood has a quaint, mellow atmosphere that feels like an escape from the city’s hustle and bustle.

Unique Features of Tribeca
One of the most unique features of this neighborhood is that it is home to the annual Tribeca Film Festival, held every spring since 2002. It is an event known worldwide with screenings of independent films from every genre.

Another thing that makes Tribeca unlike other neighborhoods is that the shops open later. This is because the neighborhood’s residents get a bit of a later start in the morning, but you can catch them dining at one of the area’s many restaurants at all hours of the night.

Things To Do in Tribeca


Between tranquil strolls along the Hudson River and the abundance of well-known eateries, you’ll always be able to find something to do in Tribeca. Here are some of our favorite activities:

Restaurants and Nightlife: Because the eateries stay open late in Tribeca, you’ll be able to put your food cravings at ease no matter what time it is. Definition of “the city that never sleeps!”
Art Galleries: Tribeca is home to some of NYC’s most notable artists, so it is no surprise that it has some of the best and most unique galleries in Manhattan.
Hudson River Park: Here you’ll be able to take in incredible views of the Manhattan skyline while strolling along the river.
Top Food Choices in Tribeca
There’s no shortage of restaurants in Tribeca, so get ready to feast! Check out some of our favorite spots:

Bubby’s: To start off your day, grab brunch at Bubby’s, as recommended by Triplemint Agent David Palermo. They provide tasty American food that will make you feel like you’re experiencing classic Tribeca. It is also a great spot for late-night pie!
Locanda Verde: For dinner, reserve your seat at a restaurant that all of our agents favor. Locanda Verde is a “soul-satisfying” Italian restaurant led by world-renowned chef Andrew Carmelleni. His dishes are the definition of five stars, from ribeye to ravioli that are actually the chef’s grandmother’s recipes.
Frenchette: A fairly new restaurant in the neighborhood, Frenchette is a must-try. From fried blowfish tails to duck frites, the unique cuisine and exclusive natural wines make this spot a local favorite.
Top Three Things We Love About Tribeca


1. Array of Restaurants: There is an abundance of well-known restaurants to try.

2. Industrial Vibe: The spacious lofts with an industrial flair are so unique.

3. Quiet Yet Lively: Although the streets are quiet, there is still so much to do and see in this neighborhood.

Tribeca is far and away the most expensive neighborhood in New York City. Its remarkable loft-style architecture, trendy shops and cafes, and seeming insulation from the rest of the city make it a perfect destination for those looking to find some peace in the Big Apple. Stars aren't just like us: they live in Tribeca.

In the the sections below, you'll get a glimpse into life in Tribeca. But before you go anywhere, make sure you scroll through the photos in the gallery below. Nothing can tell the story of a neighborhood as well as a few good photos. 

Tribeca is trapezoid shaped neighborhood bounded by Canal Street, West Street, Broadway, and Chambers Street (or Vesey Street, depending on who you ask). And it's home to many celebrities and for a good reason – it’s considered one of the city’s most fashionable areas. As we mentioned earlier, glamour comes with a price; back in 2006, Forbes magazine ranked Tribeca as one of New York City’s most expensive neighborhoods. And if you’ve got the cash, the neighborhood comes with other perks. In recent years, the NYPD ranked Tribeca as one of NYC’s safest neighborhoods. In terms of architecture, Tribeca has a lot of similarities with nearby SoHo; including many loft apartments that are housed in former industrial buildings. 

To some, Tribeca seems more like a suburb of New York than one of its neighborhoods. It's relatively secluded from from the hustle and bustle of midtown and it's close proximity to Hudson River Park offers great access to green space. If you're looking for an escape from the city's frenetic energy and your bank account is willing, Tribeca could be worth the price tag.

You won't be hearing the rumble of the subway in most parts of Tribeca, which is great for peace and quiet, but not so ideal for your morning work commute. The eastern edge of the neighborhood puts you in close proximity to a few lines, but as you move west, you are going to be a little bit isolated from a transportation standpoint. Then again, maybe you'll just be taking Ubers.

