That the Upper East Side is No. 1 should come as no surprise, given the concentration of wealth found along the westernmost border of the neighborhood (i.e., Museum Mile and the Gold Coast)

wealthiest New Yorkers live? It’s not hard to guess the neighborhoods with the highest concentration of super-duper-rich residents, but the Census Bureau's American Community Survey offers concrete data.
So with that in mind, what are the richest neighborhoods in New York City? If you were going to guess that most of them are in Manhattan, you would be correct—here are the top 10:

access to Central Park, Carl Schurtz, etc - great for runners or people with dogs! (as far as I know) the cheapest neighborhood in Manhattan for recently graduated students to move good bar scene, especially around 2nd Avenue, nice choice of grocery stores (plus can get to Target/Aldi/Costco fairly quickly on the M15), it's fairly quiet at night (unless you live on 2nd), while still being relatively safe, close to the library and some of the best museums! (or maybe I'm a dork)

long commute if you don't live close to Lex, the 6 train on weekdays. IS. HELL., restaurants aren't as plentiful/cheap as they are downtown, and they don't stay open as late, increasing property prices near the new subway line

My boyfriend and I are pretty quiet and don't treasure living among a lot of other young people, so overall I wouldn't move anywhere else in Manhattan. If I were going to move, I certainly would check out Hoboken though! ;)

Nice buildings. Walking past Christian Louboutin every day. Safe Access to museums, central park You can meet entertaining old people.

Crowded 456 train Tourists at certain hours, although less so than UWS Overpriced mediocre food

The Upper East Side has a reputation for being home to the wealthy, but even those on a budget can call this neighborhood home. This quiet, lush neighborhood offers a reprieve from the hustle and bustle of downtown. Chock full of history, culture, and green spaces, here’s what you need to know about the Upper East Side.

map of upper east side boundaries and sub-neighborhoods Location: The Upper East Side stretches from 59th Street up to 97th Street, with the East River and Central Park/Fifth Avenue as its boundaries. Within the borders of this expansive neighborhood are three sub-neighborhoods: Lenox Hill, Yorkville, and Carnegie Hill

Sub-Neighborhoods: Lenox Hill is the largest of the three sub-neighborhoods, encompassing the southern half of the UES and stretching from 59th to 79th streets. Together, Carnegie Hill and Yorkville make up the northern half of the Upper East Side, stretching upwards from 79th Street to 97th Street. This area is divided in half along Third Avenue, with Carnegie Hill as the western portion and Yorkville as the eastern portion.

Commute: Living in the Upper East Side, you won’t be too far from anything. The 4/5/6 trains all run along Lexington Avenue and the Q train runs along 2nd Avenue, easily connecting residents to Downtown Manhattan. Getting crosstown is a little trickier, with only few buses cutting through Central Park. Alternatively, the F train, coming from Queens, intersects with the Q train at 63rd Street, transporting residents over to 6th Avenue.

The Upper East Side is characterized as an upscale neighborhood known for its prominent cultural institutions, unparalleled shopping, distinguished prep schools, immaculate landscaping, and luxury homes.

Along its main avenues, particularly in Carnegie Hill, you’ll find evidence of its storied reputation. Park Avenue, Madison Avenue, and 5th Avenue are lined with luxury doorman buildings featuring the signature green awnings, coupled with quiet streets filled with picturesque brownstones and townhouses. Move farther east and away from Central Park, though, and the UES becomes far more approachable. You’ll find more affordable apartments in several high rise buildings and an abundance of smaller, pre-war buildings throughout Lenox Hill and Yorkville.

The Upper East Side is filled with a diverse set of fine dining and casual restaurants across all cuisines. While there may not be as many renowned spots compared to the rest of the city, there are plenty of smaller style cafes and bistros, locally owned chains, and specialty shops serving up delicious bites for residents to enjoy.

H&H Midtown Bagels East is a staple for breakfast in the neighborhood. Don’t be intimidated by the line out the door, it moves quickly; you’ll be enjoying your bagels and muffins in no time! If the line is simply too long for your taste, check out Bagelworks as an alternative. This small take-out only spot serves up your breakfast needs in the morning. Grab a fresh, homemade bagel with your choice of spread or fillings to start your day off on the right foot.

Enter the whimsical world of Alice in Wonderland at Alice’s Tea Cup. Enjoy afternoon tea complete with delicious scones, finger sandwiches, and an assortment of sweets paired with your choice of tea from their extensive variety of options. If you’re looking for something savory, their burger is delicious, as well.

white plate filled with cooked pasta on a black tabletop
Sandro’s is an intimate neighborhood spot serving up robust Roman-style cuisine. This authentic trattoria keeps guests coming back with their al dente preparation of classic pasta dishes. Try their mouthwatering cacio e pepe or bucatini amatriciana and you won’t be disappointed.

If you’re looking to impress your dinner date, head to Daniel for a world-class fine dining experience. Headed by Daniel Boulud, this two Michelin star establishment is known for its refined European cuisine and impeccable hospitality. Choose from one of their pre-fixe tasting menus for a satisfying, and pricey, meal.

In the mood for sushi? Tucked away in Yorkville, Tanoshi Sushi may look like a hole in the wall, but don’t be fooled. This no-frills BYOB spot serves up fresh and affordable omakase, with the option to add on items from an a la carte menu. Make online reservations to be seated at one of their three seatings per evening.

Indulge your sweet tooth and bring home incredible baked goods from Two Little Red Hens. From their raved about Brooklyn Blackout cake to their creamy cheesecakes, you can’t go wrong no matter what baked good you choose. Definitely place your order in advance to make sure they don’t run out of what you’re craving!

Although the neighborhood is appreciated for being a peaceful slice of life, there are still plenty of things to do in the Upper East Side. With Central Park as your backyard, there’s no better place to be on a sunny day. Jog around the reservoir, bike through the many paths, or relax and enjoy a picnic on the grass. If you’re living further east, John Jay Park, Carl Schurz Park, and East River Promenade serve as great alternatives.

Immerse yourself in the rich culture of this neighborhood and explore Museum Mile, home to several of the city’s prominent museums. See some of the world’s best art at Metropolitan Museum of Art with extensive collections spanning all time periods. The Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum is an architectural marvel in and of itself, and has both modern and contemporary art on display. The smaller, specialty museums are worth a visit, as well. Check out the Frick Collection with artwork by Henry Frick, the Neue Galerie with German and Austrian artwork, and the Cooper Hewitt Museum, which focuses on historical and contemporary design.

Shop up a storm while strolling down designer-store-lined Madison Avenue. If you’re shopping on a budget, there are several thrift and consignment stores filled with hidden gems waiting to be found. Your typical retail clothing stores can be found along Lexington and Third Avenues.

The Upper East Side is not known as destination for nightlife, in fact many choose to live here because of its quieter, relaxed atmosphere. That being said, there are still plenty of pubs and bars nearby if you’re looking for a casual place to grab a drink or catch up with friends.

The Penrose brings the energy of downtown to the Upper East Side. This upscale, yet laid-back, restaurant and bar offers a selection of craft beers, creative cocktails, and noteworthy bar food. Quickly becoming a neighborhood favorite, The Penrose is the perfect stop for a boozy brunch on the weekends or weeknight dinner and drinks.

If you’re a fan of whiskey and bourbon, Bondurants is your go to. Featuring an extensive, yet carefully curated, menu with small batch whiskey, handcrafted cocktails, and a constantly rotating draft, this casual neighborhood bar’s unique offerings makes it a standout.

Descend into the hidden, underground speakeasy known as Sugar East. Formerly the Merchants NY Cigar Bar, its tobacco license was grandfathered in, making this lounge one of only eight bars in the city where you can legally smoke indoors. Transport yourself to 1950s  Havana with Sugar East’s wood paneled walls and Art Deco accents, and get cozy in one of their leather booths while you sip on one of their tropical cocktails.

Feel like you’re in a small town at Earl’s Beer and Cheese. Despite its location on Park Avenue, this cozy establishment has a decidedly homey atmosphere serving up a rotating selection of craft beers paired with hearty cheese-centric dishes. Order their beer cheese to enjoy with your brew, or, for something more substantial, try their acclaimed NY State Cheddar Grilled Cheese, a twist on the classic sandwich but filled with pork belly, kimchi, and a fried egg on sourdough.

The Upper East Side (UES), is the area bordered by 59th Street to 96th Street (south to north) and Fifth Avenue to the East River (west to east). It is one of the most upscale areas in New York City and includes several smaller neighborhoods, including Lenox Hill, Carnegie Hill, and Yorkville.

The UES was initially a farmland and market garden district. People only began to move into the area in the mid-1800’s, after the completion of a station that finally connected the UES to the city center in lower Manhattan.

It was Andrew Carnegie who transformed the entire Upper East Side when he built a mansion in the area, which made it more appealing and caused other wealthy people to want to live there as well.

Some other well-known figures who resided on the Upper East Side include the Rockefellers, Vanderbilts, Roosevelts, Kennedys, Whitneys, and Dukes, just to name a few. It was these residents that made the UES the lush neighborhood it is today.

Once home to the country’s wealthiest people, the Upper East Side is best known for upscale real estate, mainly on Fifth, Madison, and Park Avenue. On the UES, you can find classic mansions that date back to the 19th century, Renaissance-style townhouses, and luxury condos. However, there are also plenty of Upper East Side apartments that meet every price point.

On the UES, you will feel a slower, more relaxed vibe. And even though you may feel far away from the hub of the city, you can find everything you need including playgrounds, community centers, and schools.

The 4 and 5 express lines and 6 local lines are north-south subway lines that can get you to The Bronx up north or to the southern tip of Manhattan, and even Brooklyn. Other lines include the F, N, Q, and R lines that serve the southern end.

Two unique features of the UES are Central Park and Museum Mile. On the UES, Central Park at the west becomes your garden, where there is no better place to go for a walk, jog, bike, or simply enjoy a picnic on a sunny day in Manhattan.

On the southeast corner of Central Park lays Museum Mile. It is home to some of New York’s most famous museums including the Metropolitan Museum of Art (“The Met”), the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum (“The Guggenheim”), and specialty museums such as the Frick Collection, Neue Galarie, and the Cooper Hewitt Museum.

This quiet, upscale neighborhood in combination with respective museums offers both a reprieve from the busy city and a perfect residential area to dwell in.

Although for many, the first place to come to mind is Central Park, there is also an equally beautiful park called the Carl Schurz Park located on the east end of UES where you can pass by Gracie Mansion, an old colonial house that is now the official residence of the New York Mayor.

On the other hand, if you are looking for something to fuel creativity, visiting The Met and The Guggenheim are great options. Both museums offer various exhibitions throughout the year, so there is always something new to view.

Feeling hungry? Here are some of our agents’ favorite places to eat on the Upper East Side!

Café d’Alsace: There are plenty of great brunch places on the UES to sit outside on a sunny day and do some great people watching. Café d’Alsace is definitely one of them. It is a popular upscale French brunch spot with a lovely ambiance. The Belgian waffle, topped with fresh strawberries, strawberry coulis, whipped cream, and organic maple syrup, is a favorite order for many. Café d’Alsace also serves dinner and the top dish for many is the Steak Frites—certified price hanger steak served with red wine sauce, brown marrow, and French fries. “Even tastier when you match it with a beer from its beer list,” says Triplemint Agent Brad Lauren.
Sasabune: “No Spicy Tuna, No California roll. Trust Me,” is the motto of this minimalistic, casual, but upscale sushi bar on the UES. Sasabune offers first-class food with very basic décor compared to over-the-top Japanese restaurants saturated in the city that you have to dress up for. At Sasabune, the fish is sensational, where it offers a phenomenal selection of exotic fish. Coupled with sweet and pleasantly warm rice, the sushi literally melts in your mouth the moment it enters. Sasabune requires deep pockets, but for the fresh fish, it is worth it.
Vietnaam: Triplemint Agent Omer Sultan’s favorite go-to spot for Pho in the city is Vietnaam, a local favorite on the UES that serves delicious broth with generous portions! The service is fast and efficient, a perfect place to be for your quick Pho fixes when you are craving warm soup. The place is also large and suitable for large groups. Something unique at Vietnaam is its udon. Udon and Pho aren’t typically seen together, but when combined, it’s absolutely delicious.
Top Three Things We Love About the Upper East Side
The Beauty: The UES is gorgeous. It is quiet, relaxing, and filled with tree-lined streets.
Escape from the Hustle and Bustle: The UES has a suburban feel where people move at a slower pace.
Central Park: The close access to the park makes the UES one of the most desirable places to live in the city.

Sure, the UES has a reputation for being the home of New York City’s elite (aka: snobby rich people), and while that’s partially true, it’s one of the most suburban feeling neighborhoods NYC has to offer. When we have friends or family visiting there are two things that everyone always says- there are a lot more trees than they were expecting and it is not as loud and noisy as they were expecting. It’s true, trees line practically every street in New York City. There are approximately 5.2 million trees throughout the five boroughs. With the population at around 8.4 million people I think it’s safe to say there is at least one tree per household, which is surprising to think about. The UES is also a fairly quiet place. Sure, there are the frequent honks from an angry cab driver, or the sirens of an ambulance on its way to one of the many large hospitals in the area, but overall the foot traffic is limited to the people that live here with the exception of the area closest to Central Park and the museums.

The Upper East Side has become very accessible over the past few years with the opening of the Q train. To access the UES you really only had the option to take the 4, 5, 6 trains which only run on the east side of the island. Since the Q opened we can be in Times Square or even Union Square in less than 15 minutes!

Lots of film and television productions shoot various scenes on the Upper East Side. It is not uncommon to walk by a film set with various wardrobe, make-up, and actors/actresses trailers lining the streets. We’ve been watching a TV show before that’s filmed in New York and seen a character dining at one of our favorite restaurants or enjoying a night out at the comedy club in our neighborhood.
There are lots of things to do on the UES. Spend an afternoon at the Central Park Zoo, shop your way up Madison Ave, get a blowout at Drybar and head out for an evening at Comic Strip Live, or you can take a tour of Gracie Mansion where the mayor of NYC lives. We spend a lot of time walking around the neighborhood and often stopping for a sweet treat or a much needed coffee break.

If you need a pick me up head to Hutch & Waldo for one of the best almond milk lattes in the city. Van Leeuwen for some of our favorite ice cream, or even by Woops for some macarons! We also love Birch Coffee, Ines Cafe, Jack’s Stir Brew, & Irving Farm Coffee Roasters. There is no short of coffee here on the Upper East Side!

The UES is notoriously known for Museum Mile which stretches from 82nd to 106th Street on Fifth Ave and his home to nine world class museums. Most popularly- the Metropolitan Museum of Art (or MET for short) and the Guggenheim cannot be missed. A little south of Museum Mile but not to be forgotten is The Frick Collection which houses some of the best known paintings by European artists. 

There are some amazing parks in New York City but the UES happens to be adjacent to Central Park, arguably one of the best parks in the world. There is so much to do and see in Central Park it’s impossible to see it all in one trip. As great as Central Park is, a hidden gem nestled along the East River is Carl Schurz Park. I like to refer to it as a mini Central Park. Unlike Central Park, which draws a lot of tourists, Carl Schurz Park is typically only filled with native Upper East Siders playing with their kids on the giant playground, taking a run along the river, or hanging out with their dogs at one of the two dog parks (Pixie is a big fan). Grab some picnic supplies from Whole Foods, Fairway, Butterfield Market, or Eli Zabars and enjoy a relaxing afternoon lounging in Sheep’s Meadow or sitting on a bench overlooking the East River.

New York City has no shortage of great restaurants and the Upper East Side is no exception. For breakfast, grab a bagel at H&H, some tea and scones at Alice’s Tea Cup, or a more hearty breakfast at Bocado or Sarabeth’s. For lunch you can’t go wrong with a Burger from Shake Shack or Bareburger, some yummy meatballs at The Meatball Shop, or a fresh lobster roll from Luke’s Lobster. When dinner time rolls around Pizza Beach, Beyoglu, or Jaiya are some of our favorite options. 

If you’re craving something sweet stop into Serendipity for a frozen hot chocolate, grab a black and white cookie from William Greenberg Desserts, some macarons from Laduree, an ice cream cone from Emack and Bolios, or cupcakes from Sprinkles or Baked by Melissa. There is also a local speakeasy hidden behind an ice cream shop on 2nd avenue! Go in and ask To See The Storage Room! They have some amazing cocktail options that change seasonally! 

When looking for a place to stay in NYC most people opt for Midtown but don’t overlook some of the great hotels the UES has to offer like The Plaza, The Pierre, or The Carlyle (William and Kate stayed there on their trip to NYC in 2014!) or the more budget friendly The Franklin Hotel.

The Upper East Side is bounded by 59th Street in the south, 96th Street in the north, Fifth Avenue to the west, and the East River to the east. In terms of cost per square foot, the UES is one of the most expensive New York City neighborhoods and definitely still has a reputation for being home to "old money" and "ladies who lunch."  However, things are slowly beginning to shift, especially in the areas closest to the East River. Apartments lining the neighborhood's easternmost streets (namely York Avenue, 1st Avenue, and 2nd Avenue) are now one of the cheaper options for young New Yorkers. In fact, these apartments can be less expensive than those found in some up and coming neighborhoods of Brooklyn. And when the 2nd Avenue subway line is finally completed (the first phase from 96th to 63rd Street is scheduled to open in late 2016), this area will have much improved commuting options. In terms of style of buildings, the architecture is similar to that of the Upper West Side with a mix of brownstones, doorman buildings, and walk-ups.

One of the reasons the eastern reaches of the neighborhood have remained less expensive is due in part to the 15+ minute walk required to reach the Lexington Avenue subway line. Despite a long trek to the 4-5-6 train, UES residents have a multitude of restaurants, bars, and stores right in their own backyard. Fifth, Madison, and  Park Avenue are primarily residential, but by the time you reach Lexington, you'll have no problem finding what you need. The area near 86th Street and Lexington is particularly full of commercial options. 

The UES is also defined by the many cultural institutes it houses, many of which are located on a part of Fifth Avenue aptly named "Museum Mile". Here you'll find El Museo del Barrio at 104th Street, Museum of the City of New York at 103rd Street, the Jewish Museum at 92nd Street, Cooper-Hewitt National Museum of Design at 91st Street, National Academy Museum and School of Fine Arts at 89th Street, the Guggenheim at 88th Street, the Met from 82nd to 86th Streets, and the Goethe House German Cultural Center at 82nd Street.

It should also be noted that the Upper East Side is one of the only areas of Manhattan where Republicans constitute more than 20% of the electorate; this is especially true in the Southernmost portion of the UES where Republican voters equal Democrats.

The Upper East Side has been known as the “Gold Coast” because of the wealthy men and women who dress well and live in this neighborhood. Due to its rich population, the Upper East Side is home to some of New York’s most expensive real estate, often in the form of single floor apartments and generous penthouses. It’s not an ideal place to live if you want to save money, unless you find a cheaper walk-up closer to the river than Central Park. The neighborhood is populated with many elite private schools like the Spence School, Rudolph Steiner School and some of the city’s best public schools. Families from other neighborhoods often tend to move to Upper East Side for its excellent schools.

Those looking to experience the finer, more elegant things in life belong in the Upper East Side.

In this Manhattan Upper East Side neighborhood review, we'll look into public transportation, restaurants, average apartment rent, and home sale prices.

Whether you are interested in museum culture, fine dining or high-end shopping, there's a little bit of everything in this neighborhood.

Take a stroll down Museum Mile (Fifth Avenue between 72nd and 104th Street) and you will find some of the country's most renowned institutions like Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) and Solomon R. Guggenheim, just to name a couple.

Museum Mile was once named Millionaire's Row. Take a look at the mansions surrounding you and it will make better sense.

Head over to Madison Avenue and you're in shopping mecca, with some of the world's biggest names in haute couture.

High-end department stores like Barney's, Valentino and Christian Louboutin carry all classic designs and have held a strong presence at the forefront of fashion.

This homey neighborhood is filled with mostly upper class residents, especially along Park and Madison Avenue.

Mostly brownstones line these blocks.

Further East toward the East River, you will find many young professionals who are probably in training for a career that will earn them a place on Park or Madison.

Here is where you will find more of a selection of affordable apartments.

Fun Fact: The Upper East Side's Fifth Avenue was so full of mansions in the 1800's that it was dubbed "Millionaire's Row."

Local Buzz

It wasn't until recently that the Upper East Side decided to improve its transportation options.

Ever since the installment of the Second Avenue subway, real estate prices in the area have been steadily increasing.

Not only do residents of the UES now have viable subway options, but there is also now a protected bike lane on Second Avenue between East 68th and 125th streets.

Also, the newly launched NYC Ferry will be making it to the shores of the UES this year. The East River Ferry is no longer in service and has transitioned to the new, expanded NYC Ferry Service featuring new boats, onboard concessions, and lower fares.

Fine dining at its best can be found in this neighborhood.

The Upper East Side has established itself as the place in the city to find the best fresh fish, particularly sushi.

Some of these above average sushi gems include Sasabune, Sushi Seki, and Sushi Ishikawa.

Aside from the posh sushi spots strategically placed throughout the UES, residents can also enjoy some of the city's best diners like 2nd Ave Deli and Madison Restaurant.

Stop by Two Little Red Hens to get your sweet tooth fill! It's sure not to disappoint!