While not as tony as the Upper East Side (which could be a good, or a bad thing, depending on your perspective), the Upper West is similar to its crosstown counterpart in many ways. It has, of course, Central Park, home to the Diana Ross Playground at 81st Street, and Heckscher Playground at the south end. To the west is scenic Riverside Park, which runs the length of the neighborhood, and has the popular family spot Hippo Playground. 

While the popular Riverside Skate Park at West 109th Street is currently off-limits for reconstruction, Localize.city reports that it’s expected to reopen by 2020 with a new design deemed “world class” by local skaters and will accommodate skaters of all ages and abilities. 

Localize.city also notes the debut this fall of accessible features at St. Gregory’s Playground and Bloomingdale Playground. Bloomingdale, for instance, will have ramps to play structures, handicapped swings, quiet sensory spaces, adjustable height basketball hoops, and gender-neutral bathrooms. 

The American Museum of Natural History is an Upper West Side gem, and you’ll also find The Children’s Museum of Manhattan, the New-York Historical Society (home to a separate museum dedicated to a young audience, and frequent host of kid-friendly exhibits) and performing arts complex Lincoln Center, which in addition to favorites like The Nutcracker, stages an entire series of top-notch children’s productions for all ages. The Marlene Meyerson JCC is another popular community resource, providing fitness facilities, classes, and events. 

Apparently, the Upper West Side likes family-friendly festivities: Localize.city reveals that of all the neighborhoods in the city, this area holds the most block parties on Halloween, as indicated by the number of permits filed. 

The Upper West Side has its fair share of elite private schools, such as The Calhoun School, Collegiate School, Trinity School, and Ethical Culture School. Popular public schools include P.S. 199, P.S. 87, and P.S. 9, as well as The Anderson School, which is a citywide highly-selective gifted and talented school to which 50 kindergartners are admitted each year (out of approximately 15,000 students who take the G&T test). District 3 underwent rezoning in 2017 to reduce overcrowding and improve diversity, so it’s unlikely another rezoning will happen any time soon. 

Upper West Side (West end in the high 70's)

Safe, Beautiful buildings, Lots of retail on Broadway, Levain bakery, Packed with tourists and families, Overprice mediocre food, Having to wait forever to cross from Broadway to West End

The Upper West Side embodies a classic spirit of Manhattan that you can get a feel for by watching back-to-back reruns of Seinfeld. The retro diners, Jewish delis, and native New Yorkers still have a presence, but just as many newcomers and young professionals are in the mix. A safe neighborhood that's sandwiched between Central Park and Riverside Park, it has become especially popular among families with young children.

Besides the parks, the neighborhood is defined by its cultural institutions, most notably Lincoln Center, a complex of world-famous performing arts venues for ballet, opera, film, jazz, and classical music. This hub, along with other destinations such as the American Museum of Natural History, the New York Historical Society, the Beacon Theatre, and Symphony Space, plus nearby Columbia University, has made the Upper West Side a go-to spot for the intellectually curious and seekers of sophisticated culture, as well as a home for many who work in the arts and academic fields.

Because of its intellectual and cultural roots, the Upper West Side is known for its liberal penchant, especially when compared with the Upper East Side, its more conservative counterpart across Central Park.

In terms of housing, the Upper West Side offers a range of brownstones, walk-up apartment buildings, and high-rises with doormen. Buildings closer to Central Park West and Riverside Drive are noticeably fancier and pricier than those in the middle of the neighborhood, since they have a quieter residential ambiance and immediate access to green space. The inner corridor, however, offers greater convenience in terms of proximity to businesses.

Broadway runs through the core of the neighborhood and is bustling with restaurants and shopping, of both the chain and boutique variety. The tourist hotspots around 59th Street (Columbus Circle), 66th Street (Lincoln Center), and 81st Street (the Natural History Museum) naturally attract more chain businesses.

The Upper West Side is notable for its traditional Jewish delis, bagel shops, and food markets, including the legendary Zabar's. Nowadays the culinary scene is almost as diverse as the city itself, and during warmer months the sidewalks thrive with outdoor seating for brunch and dinner. There are a good number of bars catering to young people as well as an older clientele, but overall the neighborhood has a wholesome, family-friendly feel.

Home to the American Museum of Natural History, the Upper West Side is a great place to live. One of the best parts about the Upper West Side is the ease of access to both Central Park and Riverside Park. These are great places to refresh your mind or go for a jog. The UWS is pet-friendly, with many shops offering bowls filled with water outside for pets passing by. It also has a lot of great restaurants with diverse food options. Although it’s great for living in quiet and with family, there isn’t much nightlife here. Also, the rent can be pricey considering how small the apartments are. At that price, you can find an apartment in NYC that has more space.

I am a tad biased because I've lived on the Upper West Side for more than nine years, but you won't find a more picturesque neighborhood in Manhattan. Not only does the UWS offer an abundance of public green space – Central Park and Riverside Park flank the nabe – but you'll encounter tree-lined blocks of brownstones making you feel like you've wandered on the set of a Nora Ephron movie. Columbus Avenue features a trove of cool boutiques, and Amsterdam has mostly restaurants, cafes and bars. The subway runs along Broadway, also the center of the neighborhood, as well as Central Park West. For a one-bedroom apartment in the West 70s and 80s, budget at least $2,500 for a walk-up. For a full-service doorman building, expect to pay upwards of $3,500 per month, with many topping out at well over $4,000. You'll save a bit on rent the further north you go, with walk-up one-bedrooms in the West 100s averaging about $2,000 per month.

Typically thought of as the more residential neighborhood of Manhattan, The Upper West Side exudes a more refined, slower-paced feel than the rest of the bustling city.

The neighborhood is nestled right between Morningside Heights and Hell's Kitchen or Clinton.

It extends from Central Park West to The Hudson River and from 59th to 110th Street, and includes the sub-neighborhood of Lincoln Square.

In this Manhattan Upper West Side neighborhood review, we'll look into public transportation, restaurants, average apartment rent, and home sale prices.

In addition to the calm environment, the various family-friendly activities, may explain why the area is filled with families and celebrities looking for a peaceful and quiet residence.

Though it is a bit off the beaten path, this neighborhood in very peaceful as it is not as congested as the rest of the city.

Much of this neighborhood is filled with gorgeous and massive historic apartment buildings.

With park access from its western and eastern borders, including the American Museum of Natural History, it's no wonder there are so many families calling this neighborhood home.

Fun Fact: The Ansonia Hotel Condominium between 73rd and 74th on Broadway was the first air-conditioned hotel in the city and it also had an in-house doctor, dentist, and barber for its residence.

The Upper West Side is the perfect neighborhood to stroll around and take in the outstanding architecture.

There are a lot of brownstones and historical buildings, like The Dakota - the residence of John Lennon.

The rent for apartments is high and space is limited in this highly coveted area.

The Upper West Side is directly connected to the rest of the city by way of the 1 train (local) or 2 and 3 trains (express) as well as the A and B trains (weekdays), C and D trains (B and C are local).

The subway station at 81st Street (near The Museum of Natural History) features a one-of-a-kind commuter platform with visually stunning murals and artwork.

There is a bus stop on nearly every block of the neighborhood making it extremely easy to access subways or other surrounding areas like Harlem or Chelsea.

Located just above the food haven that is Hell's Kitchen, the Upper West Side has a variety of hidden cuisine gems that most New Yorkers are unaware of.

Whether you are in the mood for seafood followed by one of the greatest ice cream cookies in the whole city (Crave Fishbar) or Southern comfort food to ease that longing for momma's home cooking (Jacob's Pickles), the Upper West Side has it.

Most famously, Cafe Lalo, known for its cameo in You've Got Mail, offers a cozy atmosphere for patrons to enjoy a quick bite or casual dessert.

Sadly, most New Yorkers only explore this area if they see a show at the Lincoln Center or venture out for a day at the Museum.

Most restaurant wait times (without reservations) aren't nearly as bad as the rest of the city and the overall ambiance is laid back which creates a more relaxed energy for optimum meal enjoyment.

Some of the most popular activities in the UWS include catching a show at Lincoln Center for Performing Arts.

Lincoln Center houses The Metropolitan Opera House, as well as NYC Ballet, the American Ballet Theatre, and the world-class Juilliard School.

It's concert venues also include Alice Tully Hall and Avery Fisher Hall.

Other exciting performance spaces to explore are the Beacon Theatre and the Westside Comedy Club.

The Museum of Natural History and the Children's Museum of Manhattan will keep the kids busy.

Art lovers can ponder at the American Folk Art Museum, The Museum of Arts and Design, and at The Sanctuary, and open air museum, just to name a few.

Upper West Side residents can also enjoy the waterfront views and jogging paths along Riverside Park.

And of course, Central Park is accessible from entire eastern border of the neighborhood. Some notable attractions close to the west side entrances are Belvedere Castle and Tavern on the Green.

A less explored gem is actually north Central Park. Not many people venture past 97th street, but it's actually one of the most beautiful areas of the park.

One of the best features is its general seclusion, much unlike the rest of the park, which can be overcrowded during the day.

If you're looking for drinks after dinner, you'll have no problems finding a great spot along Broadway, Amsterdam Avenue, or Columbus Avenue.