Washington Heights doesn’t have a lot of inventory (just eight apartments for sale, and 18 for rent) but this neighborhood in the northern reaches of Manhattan does offer affordability—the median asking price is $1,350,000, while median rent is $3,800. 

And breathing room—located on the upper ridge of the island of Manhattan, Washington Heights provides stunning views of New Jersey’s Palisades and the Hudson River. You’re never too far from green space here: Fort Washington Park is to the west, while Fort Tryon Park (home to The Cloisters and the four-season, three-acre, Heather Garden) is to the north and features year-round programming and events. Highbridge Park, which in 2015 re-opened its namesake structure spanning the Harlem River, The High Bridge, recently saw the addition of a skate park and the renovation of the park’s rec center. According to Localize.city,  a $30 million overhaul of the park, expected to be completed by January 2021, includes a new adventure playground, basketball courts, and synthetic turf practice field. Additionally, a $7.7 million renovation of Audubon Playground is expected to bring new play structures, swings, courts and water features by spring of 2020. 

The local library is a major resource in the neighborhood; its 3,300-square-foot children’s room is one of the largest in the New York Public Library system, and the branch also has a 3,750-square-foot teen area and tech center. The area’s Armory Track hosts athletic events and youth programs, and New York-Presbyterian/Columbia University Irving Medical Center is also located here. 

P.S. 187 is a popular public K-8 school here, however, over-crowding is an issue. The Muscota New School, or P.S. 314, is an un-zoned progressive school in the area, while P.S. 513 Castle Bridge School is an in-demand bi-lingual, progressive school participating in a city pilot program to improve diversity by reserving a certain percentage of seats for children from low-income families or who have families impacted by incarceration. 

New Manhattan residents shouldn't discount Washington Heights, a soulful and lovely neighborhood in Upper Manhattan that's minutes to Midtown by way of the A train. Not only will you rent more space for the money, but the apartment stock consists mostly of sprawling pre-war flats, many with gorgeous Beaux-Arts details. Brimming with Hispanic flavor due to its large Dominican population, Washington Heights boasts a good number of Latin restaurants. Mom-and-pop shops are also prevalent, so chain stores haven't found their way to this area of Manhattan yet.  Fort Tryon Park is one of the city's outdoor treasures as it provides acres of respite from the Big Apple and marvelous views of the Hudson River. Inside is the Met Cloisters, the uptown branch of the Metropolitan Museum of Art that focuses on European medieval art and architecture. And for those who like to escape the city for Upstate, you'll be that much closer when hitting the road for weekends away. Washington Heights is one of Manhattan's cheapest places to live – there's a stock of apartments that fall under the $2,000-per-month price tag.