wealthiest New Yorkers live? It’s not hard to guess the neighborhoods with the highest concentration of super-duper-rich residents, but the Census Bureau's American Community Survey offers concrete data.
So with that in mind, what are the richest neighborhoods in New York City? If you were going to guess that most of them are in Manhattan, you would be correct—here are the top 10

History of the West Village


The West Village is located between Sixth Avenue and West Street (east to west) and 14th Street and W Houston (north to south).

Known as a hub for bohemian culture since the early 20th century, NYC’s West Village was home to many artistic visionaries because of its inspiring atmosphere. This caused the neighborhood to become abundant with small art galleries, quaint bookstores, and charming cafes where the city’s intellectuals could do their best work.

Today, the West Village’s rich history has helped it develop into one of New York City’s most coveted neighborhoods and is still a cultural epicenter.

The Vibe of the West Village
Tranquil with just enough hustle and bustle, the West Village is filled with beautiful brownstones, cobblestone roads, and tree-lined streets.

You will find long-time residents as well as those new to Manhattan who want to reside in a unique place that brings their dream of NYC living to reality. It’s also the perfect place for commuters, with a number of transit options to get you to your destination.

Filled with picturesque townhomes, co-ops, and condos, the West Village gives NYC homebuyers many options to choose from.

Those who reside in the West Village are proud to call this neighborhood home, and most will have a number of favorite local spots to recommend to visitors.

One feature that is specific to the West Village is the “off-the-grid” street system.

Because the West Village’s grid is offset from that of the Manhattan Grid, the angles between streets create triangles of open space where the two grids collide. These areas are home to parks and subway stations and have a more pedestrian-feel than the square intersections in other parts of Manhattan.

It’s not only the streets’ orientation that makes the West Village one-of-a-kind. The roads tend to be narrower as well, with buildings rarely above three stories.

The contrast between neighborhoods is very apparent, allowing West Villagers to know exactly once they’ve entered the area in which they reside.

There’s an endless amount of activities to partake in when you’re in the West Village. Here are some of Triplemint’s favorites:

Shopping: Regardless of your budget, the West Village has an array of both boutique and designer shops that are the perfect places to upgrade your closet or grab a gift for an upcoming soirée.
Visit Famous Filming Sets: Many famous TV shows and films take place in the West Village. Seinfeld, Friends, and Sex and the City are some of the most noteworthy. Directors and writers purposely choose the West Village as a set location because the neighborhood plays a character in itself.
Hudson River Park: The Hudson River Park is a 550-acre riverside park and is located on the west side of Manhattan between Battery City and W 59th Street. Not only does this waterfront park have exceptional views during the summer and springtime, but it also hosts many events ranging from professional volleyball tournaments to musical performances by the water.
Credited with having the best food in Manhattan, the West Village is home to the world’s most sought after restaurants. No matter what type of food you’re craving, we bet you can find it in the West Village. Can’t decide where to dine? Triplemint recommends these three West Village eateries:

Literally any restaurant from Rita Sodi and Jodi Williams: West Village locals will tell you Buvette, iSodi, and Via Carota are bucket list experiences you NEED to try. Getting a reservation may be a bit difficult though, so make sure to book well in advance.
Corner Bistro: Corner Bistro is the perfect representation of the West Village’s rich history. Being one of the last bohemian bars in the area, Corner Bistro has been serving up New Yorkers for years.
L’Artusi: L’Artusi presents a modern take on traditional Italian dishes, coupling creativity, and comfort. Its extensive wine list, consistent upbeat vibe, and unmatched service make L’Artusi a neighborhood hot spot. Try to sit at the bar right in front of the open kitchen if you can for an incredible experience.
Amélie: If you’re in the mood for a glass of vino, this French wine bar will hit the spot. Triplemint Agent Amy McDonald loves their wine flights, which allow you to taste three glasses for just $12!
This list could go on forever because the West Village is truly a paradise for foodies.

Top Three Things We Love About the West Village
Hudson River Park: Hudson River Park is the longest riverfront park in the United States and is the perfect place to unwind while taking in amazing views of the water.
Quiet Neighborhood with an Upbeat Vibe: While the West Village is casual and relaxed, it is never dreary, making it one of the most balanced neighborhoods in the city to live in.
Endless Shopping: From high-end fashion storefronts to local boutique vendors, the West Village shopping scene is perfect for finding your next outfit, and buying that birthday gift for your difficult friend or family member.

Greenwich Village (also called West Village or simply "the Village"), located in New York City's borough of Manhattan, is one of the city's best neighborhoods to get lost on a Saturday afternoon. Escaping the formal grid structure that dominates north of 14th Street, wandering the streets of Greenwich Village will make you feel as though you have left New York and landed in a small European city. Many streets are lined with shops and, although major chain stores can be found here, there are still many independently owned stores and restaurants for you to discover.

When you have had enough of the tall buildings and bustling crowds of Manhattan, you will love that Greenwich Village offers a great respite with a calmer, more manageable feel, plus the neighborhood's shorter buildings allow more sunshine to reach the streets. There are many secret courtyards and small gardens nestled between townhouses on the neighborhood's residential blocks. From poet Dylan Thomas, who infamously drank himself to death at the White Horse Tavern, to musician Bob Dylan, who refers to Greenwich Village in many songs, the neighborhood is well known for being the home of many artists, writers, and musicians. 
Greenwich Village was also the theater for many Beat Generation writers such as Allen Ginsberg, Jack Kerouac, and William S. Burroughs.

Although there are many great guided tours you can take of the neighborhood, allow yourself plenty of time to wander and get "lost" here. Don't worry—your cell phone's map (or a friendly local) will help you find your way again when you are ready to return to the real world. You can also navigate with this Greenwich Village–West Village map.

A, C, E and B, D, F, V
- West Fourth Street
1
- Christopher Street–Sheridan Square
- Houston Street
The neighborhood spans the area between 14th Street and West Houston and from Hudson River to Broadway.

The neighborhood breaks from the uptown grid structure with smaller streets that run at a variety of angles. Its small winding streets, smaller buildings, and unique townhouses give the Greenwich Village neighborhood a European feel.

If you think of the Village neighborhoods (East, Greenwich, and West) as a family, the West Village is definitely the sibling that went to medical school and now splits their time between New York and Martha's Vineyard. It has just as many great shops and restaurants as East and Greenwich Village, but with much more of a buttoned-up polish: brownstones, tree-lined streets, designer labels, and a general tranquility that's hard to find in New York City. To many, it's one of New York City's best neighborhoods.

In the the sections below, you'll get a glimpse into life in the West Village. But before you go anywhere, make sure you scroll through the photos in the gallery below. Nothing can tell the story of a neighborhood as well as a few good photos. 

Home to stars like Claire Danes, the Olson twins (!), Will Ferrell, Julianne Moore,  Nicole Kidman, Sarah Jessica Parker, and Brooke Shields, the West Village is the East Village’s more glamorous cousin. These crooked (and often confusing) streets on the far western side of the island are as close to quaint as Manhattan gets. Many say that the area has a distinct European feel and tree-lined blocks, historic brick townhouses, trendy boutiques, and hip restaurants abound. And if the weather cooperates, we can’t think of a finer place to take a stroll.

While the atmosphere is delightful, be forewarned that much of the West Village is not on a grid system. We’re still not sure how West 10th street can intersect with West 4th street, but somehow it does. Like neighboring Greenwich Village, living in the West Village typically means trading space and new construction for aesthetics and location. Most West Village apartments are walk-ups; although the Richard Meier-designed apartment towers at 173 and 176 Perry offer an opportunity to live in a luxury building. If your bank account can handle it, the neighborhood has a number of beautiful Federal, Italianate, and Georgian style townhouses that would make a lovely home.

Of all three villages, the West Village is the area that is the most-buttoned up and residential. If you’re looking for quiet streets and easy access to the Hudson River, the West Village might be just the ticket.

Right by Greenwich Village, the West Village is a great place to take a leisurely stroll and hang out with friends. There are many cafés, bookshops, and vintage clothing stores. Due to its charming nature, it’s hard to find an affordable place to stay in the West Village. Even though you may not live here, it is a neighborhood that is a must visit. Take a stroll to see beautiful brownstones lining the street. You’ll also want to stop at one of the many old fashion diners, such as the Waverly on Waverly and 6th.