There is a private security force in Battery Park City, that is very visible, and increases the safety of the neighborhood versus other NYC neighborhoods.One of the best areas to do almost everything in New York City. Movie theaters, amazing park for kids, amazing to eat a meal, walk to clear your mind or take someone on a date, play basketball with some ballers, expensive shopping, play volleyball, have a picnic, ride bike, and more.Clean , real safe , plenty things to do , lots of families , the waterfront, the restaurant s , the shopping, lots of things to do , always see plenty of security , the grounds always taken care ,well manicured , has a movie theater , place to run , gyms , you can’t beat the view of all the ships that go by , and also seeing the Statue of Liberty , and the skyline of New Jersey and the beautiful Verrazano bridge , what’s not to loveBattery Park City resident since birth.  Love it here.  Hope to return after college.  Becoming very expensive.The parks, the activities, the views , the schools, the convenience, and now the stores and restaurants are all reasons to love BPC.  Every neighborhood in NYC may have downsides - you give up something - parks for restaurants or schools for convenience - not in BPC.  Love it here!Very pleased with the family-friendly neighborhoodWhen we moved to Battery Park City in the 1990s, the area was a ghost town on nights and weekends.  Today, it's one of the best places in NYC, if not the US, to raise kids.  The great schools, convenient parks, water views, little league - residents have convenient access to everything that once drove them to the suburbs, especially if they have kids. But this is not a suburb, it's NYC with all the great stuff the city offers.  If you work downtown, the commute is convenient.  If you work anywhere in the city, most subway lines are a quick walk.  The Brookfield area and World Trade Center center frequently open top restaurants and stores  - then there is also the Tribeca, Seaport, Stone Street and Batter Park - all within walking distance.  The new Governors Island Park is becoming a real draw.  Public schools are nothing short of incredible.  PS 276 and PS 89 run through 8th grade.  #1 US High School, Stuyvesant, is located in BPC.  There is also an excellent select High School, Millennium High School, located in the Financial District, which gives preference to below-canal street residents. The risk and fear is the explosive growth of this neighborhood causing unknown impact.  For now, and likely some time to come, it's an absolutely awesome place to live, and so exciting.There are many dry cleaners in the area, too many really, but they are all great. The restaurants are few in numbers but are all decent. There are not enough nice cafes or bookstores. You can get most of the things you need here, though.There is a private security force in Battery Park City, that is very visible, and increases the safety of the neighborhood versus other NYC neighborhoods.
One of the best areas to do almost everything in New York City. Movie theaters, amazing park for kids, amazing to eat a meal, walk to clear your mind or take someone on a date, play basketball with some ballers, expensive shopping, play volleyball, have a picnic, ride bike, and more.
Clean , real safe , plenty things to do , lots of families , the waterfront, the restaurant s , the shopping, lots of things to do , always see plenty of security , the grounds always taken care ,well manicured , has a movie theater , place to run , gyms , you can’t beat the view of all the ships that go by , and also seeing the Statue of Liberty , and the skyline of New Jersey and the beautiful Verrazano bridge , what’s not to love
Battery Park City resident since birth.  Love it here.  Hope to return after college.  Becoming very expensive.
The parks, the activities, the views , the schools, the convenience, and now the stores and restaurants are all reasons to love BPC.  Every neighborhood in NYC may have downsides - you give up something - parks for restaurants or schools for convenience - not in BPC.  Love it here!
Very pleased with the family-friendly neighborhood
When we moved to Battery Park City in the 1990s, the area was a ghost town on nights and weekends.  Today, it's one of the best places in NYC, if not the US, to raise kids.  The great schools, convenient parks, water views, little league - residents have convenient access to everything that once drove them to the suburbs, especially if they have kids. But this is not a suburb, it's NYC with all the great stuff the city offers.  If you work downtown, the commute is convenient.  If you work anywhere in the city, most subway lines are a quick walk.  The Brookfield area and World Trade Center center frequently open top restaurants and stores  - then there is also the Tribeca, Seaport, Stone Street and Batter Park - all within walking distance.  The new Governors Island Park is becoming a real draw.  Public schools are nothing short of incredible.  PS 276 and PS 89 run through 8th grade.  #1 US High School, Stuyvesant, is located in BPC.  There is also an excellent select High School, Millennium High School, located in the Financial District, which gives preference to below-canal street residents. The risk and fear is the explosive growth of this neighborhood causing unknown impact.  For now, and likely some time to come, it's an absolutely awesome place to live, and so exciting.
There are many dry cleaners in the area, too many really, but they are all great. The restaurants are few in numbers but are all decent. There are not enough nice cafes or bookstores. You can get most of the things you need here, though.
